In his first visit to the White House since taking power, the former cricket star can expect to hear demands from Trump, who in the past has accused Pakistan of lying and being duplicitous.
The goal of the visit, said a senior Trump administration official, is “to press for concrete cooperation from Pakistan to advance the Afghanistan peace process.”
The Trump administration also wants to encourage Pakistan to “deepen and sustain its recent effort to crack down on militants and terrorists within its territory,” the official said on condition of anonymity.
The United States is pressing for a political agreement with the Taliban before presidential voting in Afghanistan in late September. This would clear the way for most US troops to withdraw from Afghanistan and bring an end to America’s longest war.
Washington and Kabul accuse Pakistan of supporting armed extremist groups such as the Haqqani network, which is an ally of the Taliban, by giving it refuge in Pakistani regions along the border with Afghanistan.
Pakistan denies providing such support and argues that, in fact, it has sustained huge losses in terms of lives and money as it fights extremism.
“We are concerned about the links between these groups and Pakistan’s intelligence services and military,” the administration official said, referring to Jaish-e-Mohammed, Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Haqqani network.
The Pakistanis want to shore up relations with the United States after years of discord.
“One of the big storylines going into the Trump-Khan meeting is the sharp disconnect in expectations,” said Michael Kugelman, deputy director of the Asia Program at The Wilson Center.
“Pakistan wants to use the meeting as an opportunity to reset and broaden the relationship. The US has a more narrowly defined goal of securing more assistance from Pakistan for the Afghanistan peace process,” said Kugelman.
How the two leaders interact — neither was a politician before taking power — will also be watched closely.
Before taking power, Khan once described the idea of meeting with Trump as a “bitter pill” to swallow.
(FILES) In this file photo taken on October 4, 2019 US President Donald Trump speaks to the press as he departs the White House in Washington, DC, for his annual visit to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. – A second whistleblower has comes forward, this one with first-hand information of the events that triggered an impeachment investigation of President Donald Trump for alleged abuse of power, the informant’s lawyer said Sunday. (Photo by Andrew CABALLERO-REYNOLDS / AFP)
“I can confirm this report of a second #whistleblower being represented by our legal team,” Mark Zaid said on Twitter. “They also made a protected disclosure under the law and cannot be retaliated against. This WBer has first-hand knowledge.”
Earlier Sunday, Zaid’s co-counsel, Andrew Bakaj, said his firm and team “represent multiple whistleblowers” in the case accusing Trump of using the powers of his office to pressure Ukraine’s new president Volodymyr Zelensky in a phone call to investigate political rival Joe Biden and his son Hunter.
It was unclear whether Bakaj was using “multiple” to refer to more than two whistleblowers. Typically, several officials would listen in on a call between the president and a foreign leader.
The existence of a whistleblower claiming first-hand knowledge of the phone call would make it harder for the president and his supporters to dismiss the original complaint as hearsay.  
“Some say Democrats don’t want to hear about unity. That they are angry — and the angrier you are, the better,” Biden will say at a campaign rally in Philadelphia, according to speech excerpts.
“I don’t believe it,” he will tell the crowd, adding that he is running for president to offer Democrats and Republicans alike a “different path” towards unity.
“If the American people want a president to add to our division, to lead with a clenched fist, closed hand and a hard heart, to demonize the opponents and spew hatred, they don’t need me. They already have a president who does just that.”
Biden, 76, sits atop the pack of 2020 contenders, relishing his prime position.
No one knows whether the man who served as number two to popular Democratic president Barack Obama for eight years will run away with this contest — his third White House bid in as many decades — or fade out in the months-long test of political skill and stamina to come.
But the former longtime senator and lion of the Democratic Party is gearing up for what is certain to be a titanic battle against Trump.
After a month of modest events at union halls and pizza joints in early-voting states like Iowa, Biden is counting on making a splash at a rally in Philadelphia, the largest city in must-win Pennsylvania, a state Trump snatched from Democrats in 2016.
He has made Philadelphia his campaign headquarters, in a sign of the importance he places on winning back the state for his party in 2020.
Biden will acknowledge that the country fell short of its ideals early on.
“Equality. Equity. Fairness. America didn’t live up to that promise for most of its people, for people of color, for women,” he will say.
The kickoff is near the Philadelphia art museum steps immortalized by the scrappy boxer’s run in the movie “Rocky.”
Biden was born and raised in Pennsylvania, and the rally is a nod to his modest roots.
But far from being the underdog, Biden is looking to cement his status as the man to beat, the blue-collar voter whisperer who is best positioned to defeat Trump.
And while his delayed race entry drew criticism that he might not be ready to mount an energized campaign, the slow-and-steady strategy appears to be paying off.
Polls give Biden a growing lead over the 22 other hopefuls.
The latest RealClearPolitics aggregate puts him at 39.1 percent support, more than double the 16.4 percent of his nearest rival, liberal Senator Bernie Sanders.
No one else is in double digits.
After a deeply divisive 2016 race, Democratic voters may be looking for an antidote to Trump, the brash politically inexperienced billionaire.
“What matters to them at the moment is a safe choice, a known entity,” Lara Brown, director of George Washington University’s Graduate School of Political Management, told AFP.
Biden’s celebrity rivals that of Trump. But as voters start paying more attention, Biden — who to date has campaigned mostly in broad strokes — will be under pressure to flesh out positions on everything from health care and wages to immigration.
Blue-collar appeal 
Biden’s dominance has already changed the race’s dynamic, with its early stars like senators Sanders, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren forced to play catch up, and leveling criticism at the frontrunner.
They are expected to ramp up criticism of Biden as the embodiment of the Washington establishment.
Several rivals are from a newer generation, putting them at odds with the old-school Biden.
And while candidates are honing their messages at town halls and meet-and-greets, Biden has opted for more protected environments.
“Let’s see what happens when he’s taking questions that haven’t been vetted,” Brown said, noting Biden has faced criticism from liberal groups following reports he was planning to unveil a “middle ground” approach to tackling climate change.
Biden has aligned himself closely with Obama, drawing major support from African American voters.
He also styles himself, like Trump, as an ardent defender of working class Americans, someone who can win back the Midwestern white, male blue-collar voters who went for the Republican in 2016.
Trump has insisted he does not see Biden “as a threat.”
But he has bestowed a harsh nickname on his rival — “Sleepy Joe” — and has scheduled a campaign rally for Monday in northern Pennsylvania, just 50 miles (80 kilometers) from Scranton, where Biden was born and raised.
The chief of the US Navy on Sunday criticized Donald Trump after being sacked in a dispute over an elite SEAL commando whose demotion for misconduct was reversed by the president.
Richard Spencer was ousted as Navy Secretary, a civilian position, in a case that has fueled reports that the US military leadership has been angered by Trump’s interference in discipline cases.
“I no longer share the same understanding with the Commander in Chief who appointed me, in regards to the key principles of good order and discipline,” Spencer said in a stinging letter published by US media.
“I hereby acknowledge my termination as United States Secretary of the Navy.”
The dispute centers on the fate of Navy SEAL Edward Gallagher who was accused of war crimes in a high-profile case but was found guilty of a lesser offense.
On November 15, Trump — the commander-in-chief of the US military — reversed the demotion handed down to Gallagher.
Trump tweeted on Sunday that Gallagher had been “treated very badly” by the navy, and that Spencer had been asked to resign over the issue and over his alleged failure to address budget overruns.
The president said Gallagher would not be expelled from the elite SEAL (Sea, Air, and Land) force.
“Eddie will retire peacefully with all of the honours that he has earned,” Trump tweeted.
Defense Secretary Mark Esper said he had asked for Spencer’s resignation “after losing trust and confidence in him regarding his lack of candor over conversations with the White House,” the Department of Defense said in a statement.
Esper said he was “deeply troubled by this conduct.”
 Trump undercuts military? 
The US Navy had launched a discipline procedure which could have strip Gallagher and three other members of his unit of their prestigious “Trident pins” — effectively booting them from the SEAL force.
But Trump’s interventions appeared to cut short that process.
The president this month also dismissed a second-degree murder conviction against Army First Lieutenant Clint Lorance, who was six years into a 19-year term for ordering soldiers in 2012 to fire on three unarmed Afghan men on a motorcycle, two of whom died.
And he granted clemency to West Point graduate Matt Golsteyn, an ex-member of the elite US Army Green Berets, charged with premeditated murder in the shooting death of an alleged Taliban bomb-maker in 2010.
Gallagher, a Navy SEAL commando, was accused in the stabbing to death of a wounded Islamic State prisoner in Iraq in 2017, attempted murder of other civilians and obstruction of justice.
In July, he was acquitted of charges related to those accusations but was convicted of posing with the slain fighter’s body in a group picture with other SEALs.
As a result, he was demoted one rank, from chief petty officer to petty officer first class.
Speaking to Fox News on Sunday, Gallagher accused the navy of acting in retaliation after he lodged a complaint.
“They could have taken my Trident (pin) at any time they wanted,” he said. “Now they’re trying to take it after the president restored my rank.”
Gallagher’s case has been strongly championed by Fox News and Trump’s conservative base.
But it has also drawn criticism that the president was undermining military judicial process.
In his letter to Trump on Sunday, Spencer said that he could not “in good conscience obey an order that I believe violates the sacred oath I took… to support and defend the Constitution.”
He added that maintaining good order and discipline in the navy’s ranks was a “deadly serious business.”
In a 75-page ruling, Judge Victor Marrero rejected Trump’s argument, saying such vast immunity would “operate to frustrate the administration of justice” by putting the president’s personal and professional affairs off-limits.
“This court cannot endorse such a categorical and limitless assertion of presidential immunity from judicial process,” Marrero wrote. “The Court cannot square a vision of presidential immunity that would place the President above the law.”
Trump had filed suit against Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr, who had subpoenaed the accounting firm Mazars USA, seeking access to the president’s tax returns dating back to 2011.
Vance is investigating payments made by Michael Cohen, Trump’s former personal attorney, to Stormy Daniels, an adult film actress who claimed to have had an affair with Trump before he ran for president.
Trump is expected to appeal the judge’s ruling.
Trump has declined to release his tax returns and there have been various attempts to obtain them, including by the Democratic-led House of Representatives.
“They’re on,” Trump told reporters, two days before the levies on billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese imports are set to rise in the latest escalation of the trade war between the world’s two biggest economies.
Trump also said that US economic pressure on China was responsible for preventing the authorities from carrying out a harsher crackdown against pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong.
“Because of what I’m doing with trade that’s really keeping down the temperature,” he said at the White House.
Trump’s tough line — and his claim that events in Hong Kong are linked to the trade war — follows his insistence over the last week that Chinese negotiators are keener than ever to strike a deal.
However, despite repeated hints that high-level communications have been reopened on the standoff, White House officials have sparked skepticism by failing to provide details of those reported talks.
His confirmation that the new tariffs will go ahead underlines the reality that the two sides remain at loggerheads.
Trump earlier this month had called for 10 percent tariffs on $300 billion in goods to take effect September 1 and December 15. Then Beijing retaliated by targeting $75 billion in US exports and Trump announced that the new tariffs would instead hit 15 percent.
In addition, existing 25 percent duties on $250 billion worth of Chinese products will rise to 30 percent starting October 1.
Trump initiated the trade war last year because of complaints over unfair Chinese trade practices.
His comments on Hong Kong could touch political nerves in China, which bristles at anything it sees as outside interference in the restive city.
Asked if he saw a connection between the way the Chinese respond to the unrest and the difficulties their economy faces under US pressure, Trump said: “I do, I do.”
“If it weren’t for the trade talks Hong Kong would be in much more trouble,” he said, reiterating a call for Beijing to “handle it in a humane fashion.”
Trump’s call fell on the same day prominent Hong Kong democracy activists including three lawmakers were arrested in a protest crackdown — a move described by rights groups as a well-worn tactic deployed by China to suffocate dissent ahead of major political events.
“I feel I have to meet face-to-face with Chairman Kim without attaching any preconditions and exchange frank views with him,” Abe told a joint news conference with Trump following their summit in Tokyo.
“President Trump… said he will give full support needed for that,” the premier said.
Abe has said that a face-to-face meeting with Kim is the only way to solve the emotional issue of Japanese people who Tokyo believes were abducted by Pyongyang, but Kim has so far shown little interest in a summit.
Japan suspects dozens of people who are still missing were abducted by North Korean agents in the 1970s and 1980s to train their own spies in the Japanese language and culture.
Abe acknowledged he had “no specific plan” to meet the North Korean leader.
“But there is no change in Japan’s policy that we will seek to resolve the issue of abduction, nuclear and missiles comprehensively and to settle the unfortunate past to normalise” diplomatic ties, he added.
Following their summit, Trump and Abe met families of abductees.
“It’s very much on my mind,” Trump told them.
“I can also tell you that it is the prime minister’s primary goal,” he said, pledging to work together with Abe to bring their relatives home.
For his part, Abe said: “I am convinced that President Trump has been making every effort.”
Abe, seen as a foreign policy hawk, has recently softened his rhetoric towards Pyongyang, calling for a summit with Kim to resolve the emotional row.
Abe has repeatedly asked Trump to seek answers on the fate of the missing during his talks with North Korea.
As he held up the poster board to give the journalists present a better view, it became clear the map had been edited: Dorian's cone had been extended with what appeared to be a black marker to include the state of Alabama.
It is against the law to falsify a National Weather Service forecast and pass it off as official, according to the non-profit Legal Information Institute at Cornell Law School. It was unclear who altered the chart.
When asked a few hours later about the surprising addition, Trump responded, "I don't know. I don't know," while continuing to maintain that the initial storm predictions included the possibility that Dorian would make landfall in the southern state.
Trump had incorrectly tweeted Sunday that Alabama was among the states -- as well as Florida, Georgia and the Carolinas -- that could be affected by the hurricane.
Not long after, the National Weather Service's (NWS) office in Birmingham, Alabama appeared to respond to the contrary, though it did not explicitly mention Trump's tweet.
"Alabama will NOT see any impacts from #Dorian," it tweeted.
"We repeat, no impacts from Hurricane #Dorian will be felt across Alabama. The system will remain too far east."
After White House ABC correspondent Jonathon Karl fact-checked Trump, the president lashed out, tweeting "Such a phony hurricane report by lightweight reporter", before doubling-down on his original claim that Alabama could have been impacted by Dorian.
He tweeted: "under certain original scenarios, it was in fact correct that Alabama could have received some 'hurt.'"
The National Hurricane Center (NHC) has regular bulletins on the storm's progress, but has not issued any Alabama warnings.
And on Wednesday night, the president tweeted a map from August 28 and wrote: "As you can see, almost all models predicted it to go through Florida also hitting Georgia and Alabama. I accept the Fake News apologies!"
The map was issued by the South Florida Water Management District and, as many online users pointed out, contains this caveat: "If anything on this graphic causes confusion, ignore the entire product."
These are the revelations from a trove of vetting documents published by the news site Axios on Sunday that examine the backgrounds of people considered for, and whom in some cases received, appointments to Trump’s administration after his 2017 inauguration.
The documents show that the Trump administration was well aware of allegations of inappropriate relationships that dogged some of his initial cabinet members, many of whom have since resigned or been forced out.
Energy executive Rex Tillerson’s relationship with Russia was said to “go deep,” but he was nonetheless made Secretary of State, a position he held until Trump fired him last year.
And the administration was well aware of the “allegations of cosiness with big energy companies” surrounding former Oklahoma attorney general Scott Pruitt, but Trump still named him chief of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
Pruitt resigned last July following a series of ethics scandals.
Axios did not publish the dossiers in full but described them as “political vetting forms” that were standard for top White House officials.
The trove also includes the dossiers of a host of people who didn’t get the jobs they were considered for but nonetheless stayed close to Trump.
A document on the “foreign entanglements” of former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani, compiled as part of his vetting for Secretary of State, ran 25 pages. He didn’t get the job but is now Trump’s personal lawyer.
Former Kansas secretary of state Kris Kobach had “white supremacy” flagged as a vulnerability when he was being vetted for homeland security chief based on allegations from political opponents. 
Trump didn’t end up nominating him for that job but later tasked Kobach with investigating alleged voter fraud.
While he’s well-known for hitting back at his critics, the documents show that Trump also hired people who had previously made critical comments about him.
Mick Mulvaney once called Trump “not a very good person,” but today he is the White House’s chief of staff.
In written answers to questions submitted by leading media, Moon — who brokered talks between US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un last year — also urged Pyongyang to resume the dialogue to show its desire to denuclearise.
Moon is set to host the US leader this weekend as he tries to rekindle nuclear talks that have stalled since the collapse of a second summit between Trump and Kim in Hanoi in February.
The pair failed to reach an agreement on sanctions relief and what the North might be willing to give up in return, and Pyongyang has since not responded to calls for dialogue, maintaining only minimal contact.
“There is no reason to regard the current situation as a stalemate in the peace process on the peninsula just because the pace has remained slow,” Moon said.
Trump and Kim’s willingness to engage in dialogue had “never faded”, he added in the interview with editors of major news agencies including AFP, noting a recent exchange of letters between them.
On Sunday, the North’s state media reported that Kim received a personal message “of excellent content” from the US president, just days after Trump said the North Korean leader had sent him a “beautiful letter”.
Trump has insisted he was in “no rush” for the third meeting with Kim, but Moon said Wednesday that “behind-the-scenes talks” were going on between Pyongyang and Washington for another summit.
Despite the top-tier correspondence, US officials say privately the North has been sitting on their offer for working-level talks and the South Korean unification minister recently admitted that the talks process was at a standstill.
 Missile launch 
Moon said the implementation of agreements between the US and North Korea requires patience, given their long history of hostility.
“As their hostile relations have persisted for more than 70 years, it will be difficult to cross a sea of mistrust all at once,” he added.
The two have blamed each other for the collapse of the Hanoi summit, with the US saying Pyongyang sought the lifting of effectively all major sanctions for partial disarmament, while the North says it wanted some measures eased for closing all the nuclear facilities at its Yongbyon complex.
North Korea has since accused the US of acting in “bad faith” and last month raised tensions by launching short-range missiles for the first time since November 2017.
But Moon insisted that the resumption of missile tests did not trigger a “sudden hike intensions” nor lead to “a breakdown of the denuclearisation dialogue”.
On the question of the North’s commitment towards a full dismantlement of its nuclear programme, Moon called on Pyongyang to return to the dialogue table “at the earliest date possible”.
“If Pyongyang leaves behind the passive stance it has adopted following the summit in Hanoi… this will help it win the trust of the international community,” he added.
At the same time, Moon said, “North Korea must trust the promise of the international community to ensure its security and a bright future.”
Asked by reporters at a White House Easter event for children whether the prospect of impeachment worries him, Trump replied: “Not even a little bit.”
“Only high crimes and misdemeanours can lead to impeachment. There were no crimes by me (No Collusion, No Obstruction), so you can’t impeach,” Trump stated earlier on Twitter.
However, Democrats believe the Mueller report has revealed serious wrongdoing by the president and have yet to decide on impeachment.
The report confirmed that Russian operatives had attempted to interfere in the 2016 election to help Trump beat Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, including by hacking into email accounts.
The probe also found that Trump’s campaign took advantage of the impact on Clinton, but did not deliberately reach out to collude with the Russians.
During the investigation, Trump repeatedly tried to hamper Mueller’s work, the report said.
But Mueller did not rule one way or the other on whether Trump had committed the crime of obstruction of justice, effectively leaving the matter to Congress.
Democrats, who control the lower house, are so far mostly holding off from calling for impeachment proceedings, which would be immensely divisive ahead of 2020 presidential elections.
However, Democratic 2020 hopeful Kamala Harris said during a presidential town hall broadcast on CNN Monday night that she believes “Congress should take the steps towards impeachment.” 
That made her the second candidate to do so after Senator Elizabeth Warren called for impeachment proceedings last week.
But her Democratic rival Bernie Sanders said at the same event that while he supports a “thorough investigation,” he is concerned it may become a distraction in the bid to oust Trump in the 2020 election.
“If for the next year, year and a half, going right into the heart of the election, all that the Congress is talking about is impeaching Trump… and we’re not talking about… all of the issues that concern ordinary Americans, what I worry about is that works to Trump’s advantage,” Sanders said.
Powerful House committees still plan to dig further into the scandal and are pushing to be given the whole Mueller report, including parts currently blacked out for security or legal reasons.
“While our views range from proceeding to investigate the findings of the Mueller report or proceeding directly to impeachment, we all firmly agree that we should proceed down a path of finding the truth,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a statement.
House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler issued a subpoena on Monday for former White House counsel Don McGahn to testify. McGahn was a key witness in the Mueller probe and will likely be asked about Trump’s alleged obstruction of justice.
 ‘Nobody disobeys’ Trump? 
Trump is spinning the Mueller report as a complete exoneration. He has gone as far as saying repeatedly that the probe was a political hit job amounting to “treason” and “spying.”
Democrats, however, say the report has demonstrated in detail that Trump is unfit for office, even if the evidence would be insufficient to prove crimes in court.
Whatever the truth, Mueller’s report has inflicted damage on the former real estate tycoon and reality TV showman’s reputation through stories of close aides maneuvering to stop the president from going too far in his attempts to slow down the probe.
“The President’s efforts to influence the investigation were mostly unsuccessful, but that is largely because the persons who surrounded the President declined to carry out orders or accede to his requests,” Mueller wrote in his report.
This narrative clearly annoys Trump, who has built a career on his image as a ruthless boss, famous during his television performances on “The Apprentice” for telling contestants: “You’re fired!”
Even though the aides allegedly disobeyed him so that they could prevent more serious damage, Trump denied Monday that any sort of insubordination would be possible.
“Nobody disobeys my orders,” he said at the Easter event.
Trump also faces danger from congressional probes into his business interests and tax history, which — in a break with tradition — he has refused to make public.
On Monday, Trump and his businesses filed a Washington federal court lawsuit to try and block a subpoena issued by the House Oversight and Reform Committee to gain access to their financial records.
“Russia, Russia, Russia! That’s all you heard at the beginning of this Witch Hunt Hoax,” Trump tweeted a day after Special Counsel Robert Mueller spoke publicly for the first time since the release of his report on collision during the election campaign and possible obstruction of justice afterwards. 
“And now Russia has disappeared because I had nothing to do with Russia helping me to get elected,” Trump added. He again complained of being a victim of what he called presidential harassment.
Trump later appeared to recognize the lapse, telling reporters on the White House South Lawn, “No, Russia did not get me elected.”
Mueller in his remarks declined to clear Trump of obstruction of justice.
He said that under longstanding Justice Department policy he could not bring charges against a sitting president, effectively leaving it up to Congress to decide whether to begin impeachment proceedings.
“He wasn’t happy with the war games,” Trump added, referring to new military exercises between US forces and the South Korean military that began this week.
“As you know, I’ve never liked it either. I’ve never been a fan. And you know why? I don’t like paying for it,” the US leader said.
Trump received Kim’s three-page letter on Thursday after Pyongyang undertook four missile tests in the past two weeks that it said were a response to the joint exercises between the South and the United States.
While the weapons fired were not the medium- and long-range ballistic missiles that have posed an implicit threat to Japan and the United States, they were seen to be a new type of extremely fast, short-range guided ballistic missile that could pose a potential danger to South Korea.
On Tuesday North Korea threatened more weapons tests and said the US-South Korea war games were “an undisguised denial and a flagrant violation” of the diplomatic process between Pyongyang, Washington and Seoul.
Trump continued to play down the missile tests and said he could have a third summit with Kim in the future.
“I think we’ll have another meeting,” he said.
“In the meantime, I’ll say it again. There have been no nuclear tests. The missile tests have all been short-range. No ballistic missile tests, no long-range missiles,” he said.
Trump’s four-day trip is expected to feature plenty of warm words and images as he plays golf and watches sumo with his “friend” Shinzo Abe, Japan’s prime minister.
But the world’s top and third-biggest economies are also thrashing out a trade deal and Trump wasted no time in lashing out at what he sees as an imbalance between the pair.
“Japan has had a substantial edge for many, many years. But that’s OK, maybe that’s why you like us so much,” Trump told leaders from some of Japan’s leading companies, including Toyota, Honda and Nissan.
After a bilateral trade deal has been signed, it will be “a little bit more fair,” vowed the president.
“With this deal we hope to address the trade imbalance, remove the barriers to United States exports and ensure fairness and reciprocity in our relationship. We’re getting close,” said Trump.
He added: “We hope to have several further announcements soon and some very big ones over the next few months.”
Some observers suspect Abe is rolling out the red carpet to present Japan as the most favourable of the countries currently engaged in trade disputes with Washington but little concrete progress is expected with elections looming for the Japanese PM.
Japanese and US officials hail as “unprecedented” the relationship between Trump and his “golf buddy” Abe, and the pair are scheduled to again find time for a round to burnish their diplomatic bromance.
Just over an hour before Trump arrived, a 5.1-magnitude earthquake rattled buildings in Tokyo, with the epicentre very close to where the leaders are due to tee off.
The official centrepiece of the trip is Trump’s meeting on Monday with Japan’s new Emperor Naruhito, who only ascended the Chrysanthemum Throne at the beginning of the month following his father’s historic abdication for health reasons.
But the visual highlight is more likely to be Trump’s visit on Sunday to the final day of the summer “basho” or sumo tournament where he is expected to present the trophy to the winner.
Japanese wrestler Asanoyama will receive the “president’s cup” — weighing 60-70 pounds (27-32 kilos) and measuring 54 inches (1.4 metres) — after his win as Trump was arriving on Saturday gave him a 12-2 record and put him out of reach on the final day.
Trump’s appearance at the hallowed sumo hall has presented a logistical, security and protocol nightmare, ranging from where he sits to how he should be protected if the crowd start throwing chair pillows — as tradition dictates when a Grand Champion (yokozuna) falls.
The leaders will play golf before going to the sumo and then repair with their wives to a restaurant in Tokyo’s Roppongi entertainment district, where the menu features skewers of prime sirloin beef at 5,184 yen ($47) for two.
‘Never been closer’ 
Abe has just recently returned from Washington and Trump himself will be coming back to Japan in just over a month for the Group of 20 leaders’ summit in the western city of Osaka.
The relationship between the former war-time foes “has never been stronger, has never been more powerful, has never been closer,” Trump said.
The formal diplomatic part of the trip is limited to a short bilateral meeting and a working lunch on Monday, after which the two leaders will brief the media.
They are also poised to meet families of people abducted by North Korea during the Cold War era to train Pyongyang’s spies, an emotive issue in Japan that Abe has pressed Trump to raise in talks with the North’s leader Kim Jong Un.
Trump will also address troops at a US base in Japan, highlighting the military alliance between the two allies at a time when tensions are running higher with North Korea after the failure of the Hanoi summit in February.
Hours before Trump landed, hawkish National Security Advisory John Bolton told local media there was “no doubt” Pyongyang’s recent missile tests had violated UN Security Council resolutions but insisted Washington is still ready to resume talks.
US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer held talks with his Japanese counterpart, Economy Minister Toshimitsu Motegi on the sidelines of the visit.
Motegi told reporters mutual understanding had “deepened” but “this does not mean our positions are in perfect harmony.”
“We agreed to make efforts to strike the deal soon… but I don’t think we’ll sign the agreement on the 27th,” said the minister.






The three-judge panel agreed with last year’s ruling by a federal judge that Trump was using “viewpoint discrimination” in violation of the constitutional rights of people with opposing views.
The court sidestepped the question of the president’s free speech rights under the constitution’s First Amendment on a privately owned internet platform but affirmed that Trump had effectively created a public forum for official White House business.
“The First Amendment does not permit a public official who utilizes a social media account for all manner of official purposes to exclude persons from an otherwise‐open online dialogue because they expressed views with which the official disagrees,” the judges wrote in a 29-page opinion.
The ruling comes in response to a lawsuit filed by a group of Twitter users and the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, alleging that Trump improperly blocked comments from his political opponents.
Plaintiffs, including a University of Maryland professor, a Texas police officer and a New York comic, said they were blocked from the @realDonaldTrump account after posting tweets critical of his policies.
Trump’s legal response is that he is not acting in his official capacity when he blocks users, but the court disagreed.
“The president and multiple members of his administration have described his use of the account as official,” the appeals court ruling said.
“We conclude that the evidence of the official nature of the account is overwhelming. We also conclude that once the president has chosen a platform and opened up its interactive space to millions of users and participants, he may not selectively exclude those whose views he disagrees with.”
Trump has ground the hitherto honed juggernaut of democratic governance to a complete standstill by a blanket refusal to accede to the legal demands of Congress, a co-equal branch of government. He is essentially throwing dust in the eyes of the Congressional oversight committee members and simultaneously ‘shredding’ the U.S. Constitution single-handedly. At this juncture, Trump might as well self-coronate as ruling Monarch of the ‘Kingdom of America’. The brazenly lawless and piping hot mess has been dumped in the lap of the Judiciary, which will rule on the sacrosanct, time honoured and ostensibly inviolable Separation of Powers Doctrine. The point of no return will arrive if and when there is an outright refusal by the Trump administration to comply with rulings of the Judiciary deemed unfavourable. This would plunge America and the world at large into unfamiliar territory and subsequent activities will be tantamount to treading water until a definitive course of action, good or bad is chartered. The trains and planes will run and fly on time, high school cheerleaders will waive their colourful pom-poms at the ball games, restaurants and street food vendors will cater to every taste bud, shopping malls will be open to eager shoppers, the hustle and bustle of commerce will continue unabated, Broadway shows will delight theater-goers and dog lovers will walk their adorable pooches along tree lined avenues, down country lanes and in city parks. However, whichever way the pendulum swings, the nation would have arrived at a defining period. A time and place set in granite.
‘History does not repeat itself but it often rhymes’ – Mark Twain. In a recently published scholarly classic by Yale educated Professor Edward Watts entitled, Mortal republic: How Rome fell into Tyranny; Professor Watts succinctly catalogues the transition of ancient Rome from a Republic to a tyrannical dictatorship and more importantly and equally alarming, draws parallels with present day America. In a laudatory peer by David Potter – author of ‘Constantine the Emperor’, he makes the following observation; ‘Edward Watt’s history of the failure of the Roman Republic is the tale of how greed and self-interest undermined the ancient world’s most successful democratic superpower and caused Rome’s people to vote in a dictatorship’. Trump is courting wide reaching ruin on all fronts as he flirts with war disaster with Iran, skates on thin ice with Kim Jung Un and entices China into a no holds barred trade war. These are the deleterious machinations of a desperate man running scared from the ‘hounds’ of Congress and other investigative bodies on his scent. These are not the well-informed, measured, confidence-building actions of a judicious and sagacious leader. Thus rendering his vaunted MAGA slogan a mockery, as he pilots his country and the world on a titanic ocean odyssey, fraught with great peril and without an off-ramp.
Under the present trajectory of Trumpism and against the backdrop of a deeply engrained gun culture, the populace having been reared on external aggression and wars for generations, may likely turn on themselves as the divides within the society continue to be exploited by a leader who is a maestro at pulling on the strings of domestic schisms, to the delight of his devotees. For most others, Trump’s incremental attacks on democracy were initially viewed as perhaps opportunities to determine how well democratic institutions could withstand sustained stress tests. However, the gravity of the situation has become all-consuming and untenable and the ugly, frightful cracks have become craters and black holes. It is obvious to all but those in a state of cognitive dissonance that the wheels have come off. As America hurtles towards taking its place in history, the best case scenario is that indeed the rapidly approaching storm clouds can be turned around in a way that presents a re-set button, which will renew and reaffirm the tenets of a functioning democracy. Failing which there is little hope for the rest of the world’s democracies as an iron curtain is once again descending in parts of Europe, this time evincing shades of official authoritarianism and nationalism. In the field of the 2020 U.S. presidential hopefuls, top Democratic Party contender former vice-president Joe Biden, captured the importance of this moment in history. Whilst recently addressing a crowd of supporters in Pennsylvania, he said the following: ‘I am running to offer our country …. a different path. Not back to a path that never was, but to a future that fulfils our true potential as a country’.






A book cover is displayed as a poster as Republican members question witnesses during a House Judiciary Committee hearing on the impeachment of US President Donald Trump on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, December 4, 2019. – The next phase of impeachment begins December 4, 2019 in the US Congress as lawmakers weigh charges against Donald Trump, after the high-stakes inquiry into the president detailed “overwhelming” evidence of abuse of power and obstruction. Four constitutional scholars will testify before the House Judiciary Committee in the first of a series of hearings to establish the gravity of Trump’s alleged crimes. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / POOL / AFP)
But reflecting the Washington political divide, a fourth expert strongly dissented, saying there was “woefully inadequate” evidence that Trump committed high crimes and misdemeanors necessary for impeachment.
Democrats have made a forceful case that Trump should be removed from office for abusing his powers by pressuring Ukraine for dirt on an election rival, arguing that the Founding Fathers had a remedy — impeachment — for such wrongdoing.
In a theatrical, contentious hearing of the House Judiciary Committee — now tasked with weighing impeachment charges against the president — lawmakers listened to damning testimony from constitutional law professors who said Trump’s conduct rises to that level.
“We three are unanimous,” jurisprudence professor Michael Gerhart of the University of North Carolina stated, referring to fellow witnesses Pamela Karlan, a Stanford Law School professor, and professor Noah Feldman of Harvard Law School.
Americans tuning in to the live broadcast witnessed heated clashes between Democrats and Republican Trump loyalists on the panel, who repeatedly forced procedural votes to help stall the process.
The new phase of impeachment began a day after a congressional report on the high-stakes inquiry detailed “overwhelming” evidence of abuse of power and obstruction by the president.
The report mapped out a months-long scheme by Trump, his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, senior diplomats and White House staffers to pressure Ukraine’s president into investigating Joe Biden, the current favorite to win the Democratic nomination in 2020.
Trump “was willing to compromise our security and his office for personal, political gain” by “directly and explicitly” inviting foreign interference in US elections in 2016 and again in his 2020 reelection effort, the Judiciary Committee chair, Jerry Nadler, said in his opening statement.
– ‘Impeachable offense’ –
One of the scholars told Wednesday’s hearing Trump had perpetrated one of the gravest political transgressions in US history.
“The president’s serious misconduct, including bribery, soliciting a personal favor from a foreign leader in exchange for his exercise of power and obstructing justice and Congress are worse than the misconduct of any prior president,” said Gerhart.
“If Congress fails to impeach here, then the impeachment process has lost all meaning, and, along with that, our Constitution’s carefully crafted safeguards against the establishment of a king on American soil.”
White House spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham hit back on Twitter, claiming that “3 of 4 ‘experts’ in this sham hearing have known biases” against Trump.
The fourth expert, professor Jonathan Turley of George Washington University Law School — the only one chosen by Republicans — had a very different assessment.
Turley, who also testified during Bill Clinton’s impeachment in 1998, argued there is “no evidence” that Trump “acted with the corrupt intent required for obstruction of justice.”
Disclosing that he himself had voted against Trump in 2016, Turley said opposition to the president was “irrelevant” to the constitutional questions before Congress.
“One can oppose President Trump’s policies or actions but still conclude that the current legal case for impeachment is not just woefully inadequate, but in some respects, dangerous.”
– ‘A joke‘ –
The president himself, in London for a NATO summit, lambasted his opponents for proceeding with impeachment hearings during his trip.
“What they are doing is a very bad thing for our country,” Trump said. “It’s a joke.”
Congressman Doug Collins, the Judiciary panel’s top Republican, piled on, calling the inquiry a “railroad job” wasting the American public’s time.
Collins faced a scolding, however, from one of the professors when he insinuated that they have not followed the twists and turns of the impeachment process.
“I am insulted by the suggestion that as a law professor I don’t care about those facts,” Karlan said.
Karlan also squarely asserted that Trump’s alleged effort to withhold military aid until Ukraine committed to investigating Biden was grounds for removal — even though the aid was eventually delivered.
“Soliciting itself is the impeachable offense,” she said.
The House Intelligence Committee report released Tuesday is expected to form the basis for Judiciary to draw up formal charges — articles of impeachment — that could include bribery, abuse of power, obstruction and contempt of Congress.
Democrats reportedly aim to have the articles presented for a vote to the entire House of Representatives by late December.
If they pass as expected, Trump would then stand trial for removal in the Republican-controlled Senate, where he is likely to be exonerated.






President Donald Trump offered Tuesday to help Mexico hunt the killers of nine Mormon women and children shot dead in a lawless border area and said the United States stood ready to back its southern neighbour in a “war” on drug cartels.
Gunmen ambushed the members of the LeBaron family — a large clan of Mormons who emigrated to Mexico in the late 19th century — on Monday on a rural road between the states of Sonora and Chihuahua, which border the United States.
Three women and six children were killed, including a set of twin babies, said, relatives and Mexican officials. Another six children were also injured — two seriously — in the attack, which left the family’s cars riddled with bullets and one badly charred.
Mexican Security Minister Alfonso Durazo said the family may have been mistakenly targeted or caught in the crossfire in turf wars between rival drug cartels.
“If Mexico needs or requests help in cleaning out these monsters, the United States stands ready, willing & able to get involved and do the job quickly and effectively,” Trump wrote in a tweet.
He praised Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador for prioritizing the fight against drug trafficking, but said “the cartels have become so large and powerful that you sometimes need an army to defeat an army!
“This is the time for Mexico, with the help of the United States, to wage WAR on the drug cartels and wipe them off the face of the earth.”
Lopez Obrador said he would accept “all necessary cooperation” to get justice for the victims, all of whom lived on the Mexican side but had dual nationality.
But the left-wing populist, who has declared an end to Mexico’s “drug wars,” said he was not looking for a new one.
“We don’t agree (with Trump) on that,” he told a news conference. “War is synonymous with irrationality.”
He later tweeted that he had thanked Trump for his support in a phone call.
The White House said the presidents had spoken about the “growing violent behaviour” of drugs cartels and other criminal gangs.
“President Trump made clear that the United States condemns these senseless acts of violence that took the lives of nine American citizens and offered Mexico assistance to ensure the perpetrators face justice,” said spokesman Hogan Gidley.
 ‘A massacre’ 
Devastated members of the LeBaron family took to social media to call for prayers and condemn the lawless violence gripping much of the border region.
“It was a massacre,” Julian LeBaron, an activist who has denounced criminal groups in the area, told Mexican radio network Formula.
He said the women were on their way to the airport with their children when their SUVs were attacked at Rancho Las Moras, in Bavispe, Sonora.
Several children managed to escape and return home on foot, he added.
Another, a three-month-old baby, was found wounded but alive beneath her mother’s body.
An eight-year-old girl was also missing for about 24 hours, before being found unharmed several kilometers away.
Relatives said the children were all deeply traumatized. Five wounded children were airlifted for medical treatment in Phoenix, Arizona.
The Mexican Foreign Minister, Marcelo Ebrard, visited the area to coordinate the investigations. “Whatever the reason it’s an atrocity, it is something that Mexico cannot allow,” he told reporters.
According to authorities, a subgroup of the Sinaloa cartel, called Los Jaguares, operates in the area and disputes the territory with another criminal cell supported by cartels such as the Jalisco Nueva Generacion or La Linea.
The LeBaron community are descendants of Mormons who fled the United States in the late 1800s after being persecuted for their traditions, including polygamy. Many are dual US-Mexican citizens.
One former member is George Romney, father of 2012 Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, who was born in 1907 in Colonia Dublan in Chihuahua state, according to the US network NBC.
Mitt Romney said on Twitter he was “heartbroken for the victims of the horrific attacks.”
It is not the first time the LeBaron family has been targeted. Julian LeBaron’s brother Benjamin, founder of a crime-fighting group called SOS Chihuahua, was assassinated in 2009 after he led protests over the kidnapping of their 16-year-old brother.
The murder came after the Mormons refused to pay the ransom. The young LeBaron was eventually released.
The region around the 3,145-kilometer (1,954-mile) US-Mexican border is plagued by violent crime.
Trump, who is battling to build the border wall that was his signature campaign pledge, regularly tells Mexico to do more to fight drug trafficking and illegal migration across the frontier.
Lopez Obrador typically responds that the United States needs to crack down on illegal firearms trafficking, which generates an estimated $127 million in profits a year for the American gun industry.
Trump’s second summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Hanoi in February broke up without an agreement or even a joint statement as the two failed to reach a deal on what Pyongyang would be willing to give up in exchange for relief from sanctions imposed over its banned nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes.
Since then Kim has accused Washington of acting in “bad faith” and given it until the end of the year to change its approach.
In what South Korea President Moon Jae-in termed an “element of protest”, the North “fired what appeared to be two short-range missiles” on Thursday, Seoul’s Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) said in a statement.
They were launched from Kusong in North Pyongan province, it said and flew eastwards for 270 and 420 kilometres (170 and 260 miles) across the North.
It was Pyongyang’s second such move in less than a week, after having not launched a missile since November 2017, shortly before a rapid diplomatic thaw eased high tensions on the peninsula and paved the way for the historic first Kim-Trump summit in Singapore last June.
At a White House event, Trump said US authorities were looking “very seriously” at the launch of the “short-range missiles”.
“Nobody’s happy about it,” he told reporters.
“We’ll see what happens,” he added. “I know they want to negotiate, they’re talking about negotiating. But I don’t think they are ready to negotiate.”
Thursday’s launches came hours after the US Special Representative on North Korea, Stephen Biegun, arrived in Seoul for talks with South Korean officials, in his first visit since the Hanoi summit.
 ‘Peace and security’ 
North Korea’s Rodong Sinmun newspaper, the mouthpiece of the ruling party, devoted its entire front page and half of page two to the launch on Friday, with 16 pictures, the main one of Kim watching the launch from a camouflaged shelter.
It was a “long-range strike” drill, the official Korean Central News Agency said, without specifying what kind of weapon was fired and avoiding the words missile, rocket or projectile.
Thursday’s missile firing came after North Korea carried out a military drill and fired multiple projectiles on Saturday, with at least one believed to be a short-range missile.
And in a potential indication of more launches to come, KCNA said that Kim “set forth important tasks for further increasing the strike ability of the defence units”.
“The genuine peace and security of the country are guaranteed only by the strong physical force capable of defending its sovereignty,” it cited him as saying.
The pictures of the two launches released by the North appeared similar, and experts said at least one short-range ballistic missile was involved on Saturday.
A report on the respected 38 North website said debris left by the launch suggested it was a “direct import” of a Russian-produced Iskander — a single-stage, solid-fuel missile.
If North Korea had imported Iskanders from Russia, the report added, “it has an existing capacity to deliver warheads to targets in South Korea with great precision”.
Pyongyang, Seoul and Washington had all refrained from explicitly calling Saturday’s launch a missile — the South used the term “projectile” — which could jeopardise the ongoing diplomacy if it violated UN Security Council bans on ballistic technology as well as Kim’s announcement of an end to long-range missile tests.
But Japanese defence minister Takeshi Iwaya said Friday that Tokyo had “reached the conclusion” the latest launches were short-range ballistic missiles.
“Launching of ballistic missiles is a clear violation of relevant UN Security Council resolutions,” he told reporters.
 ‘Highly displeased’ 
Pyongyang’s latest move “is a pressuring action to steer the nuclear talks in a direction it desires”, South Korea’s President Moon said in an interview marking his first two years in office.
“It appears the North is highly displeased that the Hanoi summit ended without agreement,” he added, but warned that the launch “could make negotiations more difficult”.
A summit between Moon and Kim a year ago was instrumental in lowering the temperature, but since the Hanoi summit, the North has blamed Seoul for siding with Washington, leaving inter-Korean relations in limbo.
In New York, federal authorities said the US had taken possession of a North Korean freighter seized a year ago by Indonesia on grounds of violating UN sanctions.
The officials said Wise Honest — an 18,000-ton, single hull bulk carrier — had exported high-grade coal and brought back machinery to the impoverished and reclusive country.
Pyongyang’s angry words come as working-level talks with Washington remain gridlocked, despite an agreement in June between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and President Donald Trump to kickstart the process.
Instead, no progress has been made in recent weeks, as the reclusive state launched a series of weapons tests in protest at joint military exercises between the US and South Korea.
“Our expectations of dialogue with the US are gradually disappearing and we are being pushed to re-examine all the measures we have taken so far,” said Choe Son Hui, the North’s vice foreign minister, in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency. 
Choe took aim at remarks made earlier this week by Pompeo who described North Korea’s actions as “rogue behaviour” that could not be ignored. 
Such language was improper, irritating and insulting, Choe said, warning that the US should not put “our patience to the test if it doesn’t want to have bitter regrets afterwards”.
The North’s blistering criticism of the top US diplomat comes a week after it called him a “diehard toxin” and said it was “sceptical” about whether it can negotiate with him.
Kim and Trump adopted a vague-worded statement on the “complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula” at their first encounter in Singapore in June last year but little progress has since been made on discarding the North’s weapons programmes.






The leaders of France, Germany and Japan and Pakistan were all meeting separately with Trump and Iran’s Hassan Rouhani, fanning speculation that the pair  whose nations have been arch-enemies for four decades  could have a historic encounter in New York.
But in a speech full of praise of unilateralism and criticism of China, Trump made clear he would not ease economic pressure on Iran  a condition set by Rouhani for any meeting.
“As long as Iran’s menacing behavior continues, sanctions will not be lifted. They will be tightened,” Trump told the General Assembly.
After fiery speeches from the world body’s rostrum in his first two years in office, Trump appeared subdued, reading slowly from script, just as a scandal escalated over accusations he pressured the president of Ukraine to investigate the son of former vice president Joe Biden.
Trump denounced Iran for an attack earlier this month on Saudi Arabia’s oil infrastructure — a day after European powers agreed with US findings that Iran was to blame.
“All nations have a duty to act. No responsible government should subsidize Iran’s bloodlust,” Trump said.
European powers, while criticizing Iran, want to salvage a 2015 accord under which Iran dramatically scaled back its nuclear program in exchange for unmet promises of sanctions relief.
Trump last year pulled out of the agreement and imposed punishing sanctions, which Iran has said it wants lifted before any high-level dialogue.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, after meeting both Rouhani and Trump, said that Iran’s condition on sanctions was “unrealistic.”
Calls for dialogue 
French President Emmanuel Macron urged immediate talks between the two countries as well as regional powers.
After the attacks in Saudi Arabia, which is leading a devastating air campaign in Yemen, “the risk is that there would be a flare-up based on a miscalculation or disproportionate response,” Macron told the General Assembly.
“I am not naive and I don’t believe in miracles but rather in the courage to make peace, and I believe that the United States, Iran and all signatories of this (nuclear) accord have that courage,” said Macron, who earlier reported an “extremely direct” 90-minute meeting with Rouhani.
Despite his strong words, Trump is known for his fondness of made-for-television drama, as witnessed in his three meetings with North Korean strongman Kim Jong Un, and for following last-minute gut instincts.
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan said that both Trump and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, whom he met on his way to New York, had asked him to mediate with Iran.
“Trump asked me that if we could de-escalate the situation and maybe come up with another deal,” Khan told reporters.
Pakistan has a close relationship with Saudi Arabia but also maintains ties with Iran, representing its interests in the United States.
Trump, however, said Monday that he was “not looking for any mediators,” saying of Iran, “they know who to call.”
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a close ally of Trump who visited Tehran in June, also met for one hour with Rouhani in New York.
 Trump attacks China 
In a speech heavy on domestic themes, Trump ripped into China and vowed to stand firm in a simmering trade dispute that has led to repeated rounds of tariffs and counter-tariffs.
The United States charges that China has rampantly stolen intellectual property.
“For years, these abuses were tolerated, ignored or even encouraged,” Trump said.
“But as far as America is concerned, those days are over,” he said.
He also said the United States was watching China’s handling of Hong Kong, the financial hub where protesters have taken to the streets against attempts to infringe on its special status.
Trump — who on Monday snubbed a major summit on climate change called by the United Nations — renewed his attack on international governance.
“The future does not belong to globalists. The future belongs to patriots,” Trump said.
Hailing Trump was Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, a far-right bugbear of environmentalists. He rejected criticism of wildfires that have raged in the Amazon.
The Amazon serves as a vast carbon sink, sucking up emissions that have contributed to fast-rising temperatures.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, opening the summit, renewed his call for more ambitious action to protect the environment.
“What was truly called climate change is now truly a climate crisis, and what was once called global warming has more accurately become global heating,” Guterres said.






While serving as governor of Indiana, Pence had signed into law a ban on so-called “selective” abortions. A lower court struck it down, and earlier Tuesday, the US Supreme Court opted not to weigh in until lower courts do so.
Pence’s office released a statement saying it remained “hopeful that at a later date the Supreme Court will review one of numerous state laws across the US that bar abortion based on sex, race, or disability.”
“Countries across the globe prohibit selective abortion — and the United States should do the same,” said the statement from Pence’s press secretary Alyssa Farah.
Pence’s remarks follow moves by legislatures in several Republican-led states to restrict access to abortion in a bid to eventually challenge the 1973 US Supreme Court ruling in Roe vs Wade, which made abortion legal nationwide.
Since taking office, President Donald Trump has appointed two conservative justices — Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh — and liberal members of the court are now outnumbered five to four.






US President Donald Trump’s second meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un broke up without an agreement or even a joint statement as the two failed to reach a deal on sanctions relief and what Pyongyang would be willing to give up of its banned nuclear weapons and ballistic programmes.
According to reports Trump gave Kim a written list of demands and Pyongyang has since accused Washington of acting in “bad faith”, giving it until the end of this year to change its approach.
The North’s statement on Friday, released by its official news agency KCNA, reiterated its stance.
The “underlying cause” of the “setback” in Hanoi was “the arbitrary and dishonest position taken by the United States”, it quoted a North Korean foreign ministry spokesperson as saying.
The US had insisted on “a method which is totally impossible to get through”, it said.
Unless Washington “comes forward with a new method of calculation”, it said, “the DPRK-US dialogue will never be resumed and by extension, the prospect for resolving the nuclear issue will be much gloomy”.
KCNA refrained from criticising Trump, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo or National Security Adviser John Bolton by name.
The report came about a week after Pyongyang had demanded the United Nations take “urgent measures” to help return a cargo ship seized by the US for alleged sanctions violations, calling the move a “heinous” act.
Pyongyang’s foreign ministry also denounced it as an “outright denial” of the spirit of the Singapore summit Trump and Kim held last year.
Earlier this month the North also sought to raise the pressure by launching several short-range missiles, its first such tests for more than a year.
“And the further its mistrust and hostile acts towards the DPRK grow, the fiercer our reaction will be,” KCNA said.
An orange blimp of a baby Trump dressed in a diaper is set to fly over central London as the US leader sits down for breakfast with UK business executives before heading into negotiations with May’s team.
Trump’s three-day visit is technically centred around Wednesday’s D-Day 75th-anniversary commemorations on the south shore of England.
But it comes at an especially chaotic time for the UK.
May will resign as Conservative Party leader on Friday over her inability to deliver Brexit despite focusing on little else in the three years on the job.
She will stay on as prime minister until her successor is found among 13 contenders who must make some difficult choices before the twice-delayed deadline on October 31.
Trump has already weighed in by urging Britain to walk away from the EU without an agreement — and suggested that Brexit-backing former foreign minister Boris Johnson would be an “excellent” choice to head the government and get it done.
He tweeted on Monday that the US could offer Britain a “big Trade Deal” once it drops the “shackles” of the European trade bloc of which it has been a member for 46 years.
But the two-sides’ special relationship will also be tested by Britain’s possible use of Chinese firm Huawei’s technology in 5G networks, and different approaches to Iran.
A senior UK government official told The Times newspaper that May would make “no apologies” over her reported decision to let Huawei build some non-essential parts of the next-generation mobile service.
The US administration has strongly hinted that this may limit its ability to share intelligence with Britain.
 Churchill War Rooms 
May is expected to tell the business breakfast that Britain will strive to strike a US “bilateral free trade agreement, with broader economic co-operation”.
“Through dialogue like this we can ensure that our economic partnership not only endures but continues to grow stronger for many years to come,” May said in comments released by her office.
The morning talks will also be attended by UK finance minister Philip Hammond and international trade minister Liam Fox. The US delegation includes Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.
“We will want to see better access to services in the US and we will have to offer something in return,” Fox told BBC radio on Tuesday.
May will give Trump a copy of one of the most significant documents in the transatlantic “special relationship” — a framed copy of Winston Churchill’s personal draft of the 1941 Atlantic Charter that which defined the Allied goals post-World War II.
Trump and May will also go on a private tour of the Churchill War Rooms from which Britain’s wartime prime minister ran his operations.
 ‘Noise protests’ 
Their talks are set to be accompanied by the sounds of a “noise protests” of thousands of anti-Trump activities.
The demonstration will rally round a giant inflatable balloon mocking Trump by depicting him as an orange baby.
Opposition Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn promised to speak at the rally after skipping a Monday evening banquet hosted by Queen Elizabeth II at Buckingham Palace in protest at Trump’s policies.
He said on Monday the protest was “an opportunity to stand in solidarity with those he’s attacked in America, around the world and in our own country”.
Trump’s day will be rounded off with a dinner at the US ambassador’s Winfield House residence.
The heir to the throne Prince Charles and his wife Camilla will attend on behalf of the queen.
“The Queen and the entire Royal family have been fantastic,” Trump tweeted on Monday.
“The relationship with the United Kingdom is very strong.”
May and Trump will conclude the trip by joining other world leaders on Wednesday in the English port of Portsmouth to commemorate 75 years since the D-Day landings changed the course of World War II.
“We owe an immeasurable debt to the British, American and Allied soldiers who began the liberation of Europe on 6th June 1944,” the queen told Monday’s banquet.
The weather system is expected to reach hurricane strength Friday or early Saturday when it nears Louisiana’s coast, according to the National Hurricane Center (NHC), and has already caused major flooding in the low-lying city.
Trump on Thursday issued a national disaster declaration, which will allow federal agencies to participate in emergency relief efforts, in response to a request by Louisiana governor John Bel Edwards.
“Thank you, President Trump, for quickly responding to my request… We appreciate the support of the White House and our federal partners as we continue our unprecedented flood fight,” the governor said in a tweet Thursday.
The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) separately announced that it would temporarily halt immigration enforcement activity in areas subject to the state of emergency. 
It said that the Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agency would not target migrant families who were evacuated during the storm, ahead of sweeping operations nationwide to detain and deport illegal immigrants expected to start this weekend.
“Our highest priority remains the preservation of life and safety. In consideration of these circumstances, there will be no immigration enforcement initiatives associated with evacuations or sheltering related to the storm, except in the event of a serious public safety threat,” the agency said in a Thursday press release.
The incoming storm has evoked memories of Hurricane Katrina, the costliest and deadliest hurricane in US history, which submerged about 80 percent of New Orleans as the city’s flood defences gave way. 
Katrina also pounded other parts of Louisiana as well as Mississippi and Alabama, leading to about 1,800 deaths and more than $150 billion in damage.
Hafiz Saeed who had a $10 million US bounty on his head — was taken into custody earlier in the day following a raid by counter-terrorism forces in the eastern Pakistani city of Gujranwala.
“After a ten-year search, the so-called ‘mastermind’ of the Mumbai terror attacks has been arrested in Pakistan. Great pressure has been exerted over the last two years to find him!” Trump tweeted.
The arrest came days before Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan is due to meet Trump at the White House.
Relations between the historic allies have plummeted in part due to the Trump administration’s demands that Pakistan do more to contain extremists.
The top US diplomat for South Asia called for Pakistan to ensure the prosecution of Saeed, who has spent years in and out of varying forms of detention.
“A full and expeditious prosecution for his involvement in numerous acts of terror, such as the Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people, including six Americans, is necessary,” said Alice Wells, the acting assistant secretary of state for South Asia.
“The victims of terrorist attacks deserve justice,” she wrote on Twitter.






(FILES) In this file photo taken on October 21, 2019 US President Donald Trump speaks during a cabinet meeting at the White House in Washington, DC. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Trump is threatened with removal from office over allegations that he abused his powers and broke the law by pressuring Ukraine to supply damaging information on rival Democrats and possible 2020 presidential election challenger Joe Biden.
The evidence covers a series of events from April 2019 when Zelensky was elected, and both sides sought to reboot Washington-Kyiv relations. Zelensky sought to aid and a meeting with the US leader; Trump sought “investigations.”
 Giuliani machinations
Trump gave the Ukraine leader a congratulatory phone call on April 19. Days later, Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani said online and in public that the US wanted Ukraine to investigate Burisma, the energy company on whose board Biden’s son Hunter served for five years until April 2019. 
Giuliani also called for an investigation into a debunked conspiracy theory that Ukraine helped the Democrats against Trump in the 2016 election.
“Explain to me why Biden shouldn’t be investigated if his son got millions from a Russian loving crooked Ukrainian oligarch while He was VP and point man for Ukraine,” Giuliani tweeted on May 10.
Giuliani’s immediate impact was in getting Trump to remove US ambassador Marie Yovanovitch, who had resisted Giuliani’s involvement in Ukraine policy.
Another result: Trump told Vice President Mike Pence not to attend Zelensky’s May 14 inauguration, sending Energy Secretary Rick Perry instead. According to a whistleblower complaint in August, that downgrade was meant to signal to the new government that Trump wanted the investigations.
 July 10 meeting
In a July 10 meeting in the office of White House National Security Advisor John Bolton, Gordon Sondland, the US ambassador to the European Union, told Ukrainian officials that a high profile meeting they sought between Zelensky and Trump was contingent on “investigations in the energy sector” and later referenced “Burisma”.
Sondland told the Ukrainians the alleged quid pro quo was authorized by Trump’s right-hand man, acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney.
“We have an agreement with the chief of staff for a meeting if these investigations in the energy sector start,” Sondland told the Ukrainians, according to witnesses.
Bolton, who objected to the linkage, immediately cut the meeting short, but Sondland continued to make the point in a subsequent meeting, witnesses said.
 Aid suspension
On July 19 Mulvaney, who also heads the White House budget office, froze a military aid package for Ukraine worth $391 million dollars. He told budget officials it was at the order of Trump, but did not explain the reason. But in October Mulvaney told reporters it was linked to investigations and said there was nothing wrong with the quid pro quo.
– July 25 phone call
On July 25 Trump spoke again by phone with Zelensky. According to a rough summary of the call released by the White House, he made clear he wanted Ukraine to open the investigations, and hinted at the linkage with assistance and a face-to-face meeting.
“I would like you to do us a favour though because our country has been through a lot and Ukraine knows a lot about it,” Trump said.
Trump made direct reference to the story that Ukraine interfered in the 2016 election helping rival Democrats.
“I would like you to find out what happened with this whole situation,” Trump said. “It’s very important that you do it if that’s possible.”
Trump added that “There’s a lot of talk about Biden’s son… A lot of people want to find out about that,” he said, proposing Kiev cooperate with US Attorney General Bill Barr.
“The United States has been very, very good to Ukraine. I wouldn’t say that it’s reciprocal necessarily because things are happening that are not good but the United States has been very, very good to Ukraine.”
 Text messages
After the July 25 call, Sondland pressed on Kiev the need for investigations. Text messages between Sondland and other US diplomats show he was focused on Trump’s insistence on “the deliverable” — the investigations as a quid pro quo for the military aid.
“I think potus (Trump) really wants the deliverable,” he wrote on August 9.
In August he helped arrange a prepared statement for Zelensky to deliver that would satisfy Trump.
The statement, according to an August 13 text, was to read: “We intend to initiate and complete a transparent and unbiased investigation of all available facts and episodes, including those involving Burisma and the 2016 US elections, which in turn will prevent the recurrence of this problem in the future.”
Seeing that, Sondland wrote: “Perfect.”
That statement was never delivered. On September 1 Sondland told Zelensky advisor Andriy Yermak that military aid would not be released until Kiev signalled the investigations into Biden and 2016. 
The rising temperature on the peninsula threatens to derail putative negotiations between Pyongyang and Washington, with the North saying the combined drills were a “flagrant violation” of the process.
Pyongyang has always been infuriated by military exercises between the South and US, seeing them as rehearsals for invasion, but in the past, it has tended to avoid carrying out missile tests while the war games were taking place.
The speed of its statement Tuesday was also unusual, coming within an hour of the launch, rather than the more normal day later.
The North fired “two projectiles that are assumed to be short-range ballistic missiles” from South Hwanghae province on its west coast, Seoul’s Joint Chiefs of Staff said in a statement.
They flew around 450 kilometres across the peninsula and into the East Sea, also known as the Sea of Japan, reaching an altitude of 37 kilometres and a speed of “at least Mach 6.9”, the South’s military said.
That puts them around the middle of the range of projectiles that have been fired by the North four times in the past 12 days.
Seoul has said all were likely to be short-range ballistic missiles — the North is banned from ballistic missile launches under UN Security Council resolutions — while Pyongyang has described some as a “large-calibre multiple-launch guided rocket system” or “tactical guided weapon”.
The latest launch came after the South Korean and US militaries began mainly computer-simulated joint exercises on Monday to test Seoul’s ability to take operational control in wartime.
Less than an hour after the North’s weapons test, an official of its foreign ministry said the drills were “an undisguised denial and a flagrant violation” of the diplomatic process between Pyongyang, Washington and Seoul.
All joint drills between the South and the US were “aggressive war exercises simulating the surprise and preemptive attack on the DPRK”, the spokesperson said in a statement carried by the official KCNA news agency.
“So we are compelled to develop, test and deploy the powerful physical means essential for national defence,” the official added. “The US and South Korean authorities cannot counter this even though they have 10 months.”
 ‘Fruitless and exhausting’ 
The North attacked its neighbour in 1950, triggering the Korean War, but has long argued it needs nuclear weapons to defend itself against invasion from the US.
Park Won-gon, an international relations professor at Handong Global University, said more missile launches during the joint exercises were “highly likely”.
If dialogue resumed later, he added, “it can use these missile tests to pressure Seoul and Washington”.
“The problem is that South Korea and the US virtually haven’t responded at all to these recent launches, allowing Pyongyang to test as many times as they want,” he told AFP.
US President Donald Trump last week downplayed the North’s launches, saying the North’s leader Kim Jong Un would not want to “disappoint” him.
US Defense Secretary Mark Esper, who is on an Asia tour, said Tuesday that while Washington took the tests seriously, “we also need to be careful not to overreact and not to get ourselves in a situation where diplomacy is closed off”.
Trump and Kim held a historic summit in Singapore last year, where the North made a vague pledge on denuclearisation, and the second summit in Hanoi this February broke up amid disagreements over sanctions relief and what Pyongyang might be willing to give up in return.
The two agreed to resume nuclear talks during their impromptu June meeting in the Demilitarized Zone that divides the peninsula, but that working-level dialogue has yet to begin.
Analysts say the military manoeuvres on both sides could see discussions pushed back until the autumn, and Pyongyang signalled Tuesday that it was in no mood to talk.
“A constructive dialogue cannot be expected at a time when a simulated war practice targeted at the dialogue partner is being conducted,” said the North’s foreign ministry spokesperson.
“There is no need to have a fruitless and exhausting dialogue with those who do not have a sense of communication,” they added.
After the Singapore summit, Trump made a shock announcement halting joint drills, adopting Pyongyang’s own description of them as “provocative”.
War games are known as Ulchi Freedom Guardian (UFG) and scheduled for August last year were subsequently suspended and the allies’ biggest annual drills, Foal Eagle and Key Resolve, were replaced with a shorter “Dong Maeng” or “Alliance” exercise in March.
The whistleblower said White House officials had expressed alarm about the gravity of Trump’s call with his Ukrainian counterpart, and that they told the whistleblower that they had likely “witnessed the president abuse his office for personal gain.”
On August 5 Modi’s Hindu-nationalist government revoked the autonomy of the Muslim-majority territory where tens of thousands of people have been killed in an uprising against Indian rule since 1989, most of them civilians.
Earlier this month, Trump said he was ready to step in, but at a meeting with Modi at the G7 in France, Trump said “the prime minister really feels he has it under control”.
Trump added he and Modi spoke about Kashmir “at great length” on Sunday.
New Delhi’s contentious decision angered Pakistan, which has fought two wars with India over the region, and Prime Minister Imran Khan said Monday he would continue fighting for the rights of Kashmiris.
Khan said he planned to embark on a diplomatic tour soon to raise the issue in international forums including the UN General Assembly in September.
“I will tour the world and tell them what is happening… the Modi government is pursuing a policy which brought havoc globally in the past,” Khan said in a televised broadcast.
“Many Muslim governments, which are not openly supporting us due to their business interests, will sooner or later support our position… It is imperative that we should stand by Kashmiris. We should give a message to Kashmiris that we are with them.”
 Truck driver killed 
The Trump-Modi talks came as police said stone-throwing protesters in Kashmir killed a driver of what they thought was a military truck, amid a crippling security lockdown imposed just hours before the autonomy announcement.
New Delhi sent reinforcements to the estimated half-a-million troops already stationed in Kashmir, cut phone lines and the internet, placed severe restrictions on movement and arrested thousands, according to multiple sources.
The turning of the former Himalayan kingdom of seven million people into a fortress of barricades and barbed wire has not prevented protests and clashes with security forces taking place however.
In the latest demonstration on Sunday in Anantnag district protestors hurled stones at a truck that they believed to be a military vehicle. The 42-year-old driver was struck on the head and died, police said.
The Press Trust of India news agency said two men had been arrested over the incident.
India says no civilian has died from police action since August 5.
But residents have said three people have been killed, including a young mother who choked after police fired tear-gas canisters into her home.
Multiple hospital sources have told AFP at least 100 people had been hurt during the lockdown, some with firearm injuries.
Authorities say they have been easing restrictions gradually but a delegation led by key opposition figure Rahul Gandhi was turned away at Srinagar airport on Saturday after flying in from New Delhi to assess the situation.
Regional police chief Dilbagh Singh told AFP Gandhi was turned back because in a situation “getting to normalcy” they wanted to avoid any “controversial statement”.
Jammu and Kashmir Governor Satya Pal Malik on Sunday defended the restrictions, echoing the government which says the curbs are meant to maintain peace in the disputed region also claimed by arch-rival Pakistan.
 Trump offer 
Ahead of his latest remarks, Trump last Tuesday after phone calls with both Modi and Khan offered to mediate in what he called an “explosive” situation in Kashmir.
“Kashmir is a very complicated place. You have Hindus and you have the Muslims and I wouldn’t say they get along so great,” Trump told reporters at the White House.
“I will do the best I can to mediate,” he added.
India has insisted Kashmir is purely an internal matter and that it does not want outside mediation.
“Any discussion on Kashmir, if at all warranted, will only be with Pakistan and only bilaterally,” Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar was quoted as saying on Friday.
It was the second fatal shooting in less than a week at a Walmart store in the US and comes after a mass shooting in California last weekend.
Dan Patrick, the lieutenant governor of Texas, confirmed that there had been up to 20 casualties in the shooting at the Cielo Vista Mall after local television networks had reported similar numbers.
"We have between 15 and 20 casualties, we don't know the number of fatalities," Patrick told Fox News.
El Paso Mayor Dee Margo acknowledged that there had been a number of deaths after gunfire was first heard around 10 am.
"I can't confirm the number of fatalities. But there are fatalities," he told CNN.
"It is a tragedy and I don't want to comment until I have full information. It is a tragedy, I'm just so torn up about it."
Margo said three suspects were in custody, though police spokesman Sergeant Robert Gomez said he could confirm only one suspect in custody at the moment.
A witness who gave her name as Vanessa said she had just pulled into the parking lot at Walmart and "all of a sudden you heard what sounded like fireworks, really loud fireworks."
"You could hear the pops, one right after another and at that point as I was turning, I saw a lady, seemed she was coming out of Walmart, headed to her car. She had her groceries in her cart and I saw her just fall," she told Fox News.
The witness told Fox that she had seen one man open fire wearing what appeared to be combat fatigues.
"He was wearing a black t-shirt, camo colored pants. He was wearing something to cover his ears, like headphones, really thick ones.
"He was carrying a dark rifle and he was just pointing at people and just shooting and, yeah, the last thing I saw, he shot somebody that was in a corner."
After seeing the woman fall in the parking lot, "that's when I thought, okay, this is not -- these aren't fireworks ... He was just shooting randomly. It wasn't to any particular person. It was any that would cross paths."
The White House said President Donald Trump, who is spending the weekend at his golf club in New Jersey, had been told about the shooting.
"The President has been briefed on the shooting in El Paso, and we continue to monitor the situation," White House Deputy Press Secretary Steven Groves said in a statement.
Trump had spoken to Attorney General Bill Barr and Texas Governor Greg Abbott about the shooting.
Abbott called the shooting "a heinous and senseless act of violence," adding that "our hearts go out to the victims."
It has been a particularly bad week for gun violence in the United States.
Two people died and a police officer was wounded Tuesday at a Walmart in Mississippi.
Last Sunday a 19-year-old gunman opened fire at a food festival in northern California, killing three, including two children.






It is strange, isn’t it, even apocalyptic that we should be speaking of the good or bad behavior of the president of the great America, like a school boy! Never mind that a baby blimp flew across London while the visit lasted and the divisive and intrusive Trump largely moved around the city of London by helicopter, and protesters gave a hell of time to security forces, and that Jeremy Corbyn stayed away from the banquet and some of the royals did not fancy taking pictures with the Trump clan who traveled just to sit in the presence of old money as represented by British royalty, and that Trump saw the visit as a successful one with no demonstrations against his visit!
Trump behaved well. Can you beat that? He did not walk ahead of the old queen like a horseman leading an old horse as he did during his first visit in July 2018. Just imagine Obama committing that faux pas! I was embarrassed that any man with a teeny weeny bit of gentility added to his person could treat the queen that way. So his handlers must have done a lot of homework and stood on pins and needles while the visit lasted. Not a pleasant position to be in! Keep to the script. Watch the queen’s movements. Reduce your tweets while in residence. Well, trust the British for handling delicate situations with finesse. It was Prince of Wales that walked to the helipad to receive the president this time and so no opportunity to walk a long distance with a guest with poor table manners! As long as he stayed within the script he was okay. 
But how do you control what loose cannon can say at a press conference anyway? But he managed to praise Theresa May whom he had so ungraciously deprecated for not ‘handling the Brexit process properly’ before landing in beautiful old London. He also did not spare his old foe Sadiq Khan the Mayor of London calling him a ‘stone-cold loser’. Khan responded and likened the American to an 11 year old’. He also meddled into British politics by recommending controversial Boris Johnson as the right man to do the job of the prime minister! The rather embarrassed Johnson declined meeting with the august trouble-making visitor from a former colony and had a telephone chat with him!
Now, who does not know that state officials should not openly dabble into the politics of another country? Only Trump, apparently. That is obviously the reason he didn’t mind the Russians monkeying with the American elections that catapulted him into the White House. Indeed he urged Russia and Assange of Wikileaks to hack into Clinton’s emails. It is this same Assange that America wants to bring to its soil to be tried. Too much confusion from this president! Which is not to say that some powerful nations do not try to interfere to push an agenda, whether by deceit or open/subtle threats, when elections are coming in strategic countries! What is America’s business in Venezuela or Ukraine or Cuba?A mumu question you might say!
Trump’s visit coincided with the 75th anniversary of the Normandy landing through which the allied forces had gained a foothold in Europe in order to dislodge the bloody Nazis from the continent in 1944. Well, it was a somber ceremony if ever there was one. 
With the Queen in attendance we watched some veterans now in their 90s recall those horrible days of war which they fought for the sake of humanity. The grave sites, I mean the cemeteries, looked so beautiful that it was almost attractive to die as a war hero. Just that the occupants of those ground holes have no knowledge of the celebrations!
But it was indeed a celebration of humanity and the multilateralism which governed the world during and after the Second World War. It was moving to read accounts of a fifteen year old who lied about his age in order to join the army. 
At nearly one hundred years old, he came alive with memories of the war while being interviewed by CNN’s Christine Amanpour. I then wondered whether the poignancy of the moment was lost on Trump. He was called upon to read the prayer offered by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt which he delivered to the nation by radio on the evening of June 6, 1944. He delivered so very well that I wondered if all the noise from Trump is not just blustering.
And this brings me to the import of the celebration of the import of Normandy by representatives of the allied powers. The world which Trump and his base envision is one of America first in a most unwholesome manner. 
At Normandy Trump was made to recite the 1944 President Roosevelt prayer. It was poignant. All leaders knew that those boys were going to die, perhaps in their thousands. But what was at stake was higher than individual lives. World civilization was under threat from the madness in Germany. The allied forces knew this. The world after 1945 was therefore built on alliances that would make a resurgence of another Satan difficult or impossible. It is this time-tested alliance President Trump is threatening to unhinge. 
The Queen was the only one to get away with chastising the rampaging bull from the White house in the pre-dinner speech for being at odds with the western alliance with his populist ‘America First’. Thank heavens Trump stuck to the script and perhaps was too awed to contradict the Great Queen. 
Trump needs to be told that America first entails discharging its obligations to the free world and using its God-given resources to provide stability in a dithering and confused world. If Trump learnt that lesson during the trip to the UK and the Normandy celebration then we would say that indeed the trip was a success for the preservation of humanity. 
Trump did not say what the provision entails, only that it would be revealed: “in the not too distant future and will need a vote by Mexico’s Legislative body.”
“We do not anticipate a problem with the vote but, if for any reason the approval is not forthcoming, Tariffs will be reinstated!” he tweeted.
Trump first alluded to the secret provision in a tweet late Sunday defending the agreement with Mexico against criticism it contained little that had not already been agreed to.
He lashed out at The New York Times, calling its front page story on the deal “a FRAUD and nothing more than a badly reported ‘hit job’ on me … Sick Journalism!”  
The US president plunged relations between the two allies into crisis last week with an abrupt threat to slap tariffs on all Mexican imports over immigration.
Just as suddenly, a deal was reached Friday after several days of intense negotiations.
The Mexican side agreed to bolster security on its southern border and expand its policy of taking back Central American migrants as the US processes their asylum claims.
Trump, for his part, withdrew a threat to impose a five percent tariff on all Mexican imports, beginning Monday and escalating to 25 percent by October.
Trade experts and business leaders warned of devastating consequences for the economies of both countries if the tariffs went into effect.
The punitive tariffs of 5 to 10 percent will apply to 5,078 items from the US, starting September 1 and December 15, China’s state council tariff office said.
Beijing also announced it will impose a 25 percent tariff on US autos and a 5 percent tariff on auto parts, also starting December 15.
The escalating trade war between the world’s two largest economies is adding to growing fears of a possible recession in the US, with the tariffs weighing on global trade and both countries’ growth.
US President Donald Trump has imposed steep tariffs on $250 billion in Chinese goods, with a further $300 billion in imports targeted for new duties in two more rounds, September 1 and December 15.
Meanwhile China has hit back with duties on around $110 billion of US goods — or nearly all of the $120 billion worth of American goods it imported last year.
Some of those goods will now likely have their tariff rates raised even further.
The tariff hikes by the US “have led to the continuous escalation of China-US economic and trade frictions, violating the consensus reached by the two heads of state in Argentina and the consensus reached in Osaka,” China’s State Council Tariff Commission Office said in a statement.
“China’s adoption of punitive tariff measures is forced under the pressure of US unilateralism and trade protectionism,” the office said.
 ‘The chosen one’ 
China had lifted punitive tariffs on American cars and auto parts earlier this year as a goodwill measure while trade talks were underway.
The Dow Futures, which give a strong indication of the opening of the Dow Jones index on Wall Street, were in the green before the China announcement but plunged into the red before the official opening of the stock exchange.
Trump proclaimed himself “the Chosen One” Wednesday as he defended his trade war against China, indicating that it was his destiny to take on Beijing.
An alarm bell went off in the US Treasury bond market last week when 10-year bond yields briefly fell below the yields offered on a two-year bond — the inverse of what normally happens.
US officials have said in recent days that trade talks with China will continue face-to-face next month.
However China’s commerce ministry spokesman Gao Feng said Thursday he had no information on the next round of meetings, while noting the two sides remain in contact.
The two economic giants are squaring off in an increasing number of areas with officials and spokespeople taking daily shots at each other over trade, territorial disputes in the South China Sea, protests in Hong Kong and US actions against Chinese tech giant Huawei. 
“At the same time as you call for negotiations, you seek to sanction the foreign minister? It’s obvious that you’re lying,” Rouhani said in a meeting with ministers broadcast live on TV.
His comments came after US National Security Advisor John Bolton said Washington had “held the door open to real negotiations” but that “in response, Iran’s silence has been deafening”.
Rouhani also questioned the logic of blacklisting supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and said it showed that Washington is “confused.”
“The leader’s assets are a Hosseiniye (Shiite place of worship) and a simple house. Our leaders are not like other countries’ leaders who have billions in an account abroad so you can sanction it, seize it or block it,” Rouhani said.
“To sanction him for what? Not to travel to America? That’s cute.”
Trump imposed new sanctions Monday against Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and top military chiefs, further raising the stakes in an escalating regional standoff.
The US Treasury said it would also blacklist Iran’s Foreign Minister Zarif and eight top commanders from Iran’s Revolutionary Guards.
Iran and the US broke off diplomatic relations in 1980 over the hostage crisis at the US embassy in Tehran following Iran’s Islamic revolution.
The latest tensions come a year after Trump unilaterally withdrew from a multilateral pact with Iran over its nuclear programme.
Rouhani noted that there had been chances for talks with the US.
Zarif met several times former US secretary of state Rex Tillerson before Washington unilaterally withdrew from the nuclear deal in May 2018 and reimposed sanctions on Iran.
Zarif, a political moderate, was a key architect of the deal under which Iran agreed to curb its nuclear programme in exchange for sanctions relief.
But both he and Rouhani have accused Washington of waging “economic war” on Iran since pulling out of the accord.
Tehran has threatened to scale down some of its commitments under the deal unless the remaining international parties — Britain, China, France, Russia and Germany — help it circumvent US sanctions, particularly through vital oil exports.
“This White House is mentally disabled and doesn’t know what to do,” Rouhani said.
“Only high crimes and misdemeanors can lead to impeachment. There were no crimes by me (No Collusion, No Obstruction), so you can’t impeach,” Trump stated on Twitter.
“It was the Democrats that committed the crimes, not your Republican President! Tables are finally turning on the Witch Hunt!”
A redacted version of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s approximately 450 page report was published last week after two years of intense investigations.
It confirmed that Russian operatives had attempted to interfere in the 2016 election to help Trump beat Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, including by hacking into email accounts.
The report also found that Trump’s campaign took advantage of the impact on Clinton, but did not deliberately reach out to collude with the Russians.
During the probe, Trump repeatedly tried to hamper Mueller’s work, the report said. Mueller said he could not rule one way or the other on whether Trump had committed the crime of obstruction of justice.
Democrats, who control the lower house of Congress, are so far mostly holding off from calling for impeachment proceedings. However, powerful House committees plan to dig further into the scandal and are pushing to be given the whole Mueller report, without parts currently blacked out for security or legal reasons.
The US pulled back 50 to 100 "special operators" from Syria's northern frontier, where they have served as a buffer preventing a long-planned assault by the Turkish military against Kurdish forces in Syria. 
In a day of foreign policy turmoil, Trump's surprise announcement on Monday drew heavy criticism from top Republicans that he was abandoning the Kurds, who were crucial in the years-long campaign to defeat Islamic State.
Trump appeared to then backpedal, warning Turkey he would "obliterate" the country's economy if it went too far -- without explaining what that meant.
"I have told Turkey that if they do anything outside of what we would think is humane... they could suffer the wrath of an extremely decimated economy," he said.
Ankara brushed aside the threat, with Vice-President Fuat Oktay saying: "Turkey is not a country that will act according to threats."
Iran, a key backer of the Syrian government, said on Tuesday it opposed any military action by Turkey. 
In a call to Ankara, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif "urged respect for Syria's territorial integrity".
Turkey has always pushed hard against Washington's support for Kurdish forces in Syria, fearing it would strengthen Kurdish separatists in its own territory. 
Its defense ministry tweeted that preparations for an offensive in northern Syria have been "completed".
A senior US official denied Trump had given a "green light" to a Turkish invasion, which has also raised concerns over the fate of thousands of Islamic State prisoners held in Kurdish detention centres. 
"It appears the Turks are intent on some sort of military operation," the official said on condition of anonymity, adding: "There will be no US armed forces involvement."
Trump emphasised he wanted to end the US military presence in the region.
"We want to bring our troops back home from these endless wars and we're like a police force. We're not fighting. We're policing."
- US allies abandoned? -Even Trump's allies accused him of turning his back on the Kurds, who lead the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and say they lost some 11,000 fighters as the main frontline force against the Islamic State group.
"A precipitous withdrawal of US forces from Syria would only benefit Russia, Iran, and the Assad regime," said Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell, one of the senior Republicans who criticized Trump.
"And it would increase the risk that ISIS and other terrorist groups regroup," he said.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Monday that the operation into Syria could "come any night without warning," while Kurds in the area girded for fighting.
"The prudent should prepare for war," said Mustefa Bozan, a 79-year-old shopkeeper in Ras al-Ain, where a contingent of US Special Forces had been until early Monday.
Ankara says it wants to establish a "safe zone" on the Syrian side of the border where it could send back some of the 3.6 million refugees from the eight-year civil war.
Kurds argue that Ankara's goal is to dilute their dominance in the region with an influx of mostly Sunni Arab refugees now living in southwestern Turkey.
- Pentagon warns of destabilization -Trump's announcement appeared to have caught many US officials by surprise, and they spent Monday seeking to discourage Ankara from acting.
Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman warned Turkey of destabilizing blowback to the region if it invades.
"The Department of Defense made clear to Turkey -- as did the president -- that we do not endorse a Turkish operation in Northern Syria," he said.
SDF spokesman Mustefa Bali said Washington's decision "is about to ruin the trust and cooperation between the SDF and US."
"As the Syrian Democratic Forces, we are determined to defend our land at all costs," the group said.
A Turkish attack raised the specter of some 10,000 Islamic State fighters currently held by the SDF being let loose if SDF soldiers have to battle Turkish troops.
Around 2,000 of them are IS "foreign fighters", and Trump assailed US allies in Europe for not taking back their nationals.
If they escape or are released, the could reconstitute the Islamic State, less than one year after it was defeated and its "caliphate" disintegrated.
Trump declared that it would be the responsibility of Turkey and other countries to deal with the IS prisoners.
"Turkey, Europe, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Russia and the Kurds will now have to figure the situation out, and what they want to do with the captured ISIS fighters in their 'neighborhood,'" he said, using another acronym for the jihadists.
The memos from Kim Darroch, the UK’s ambassador to Washington, were leaked to a Sunday newspaper, annoying Trump and triggering demands on the British side to find out, who had disclosed them.
Trade Minister Liam Fox, who is on a visit to Washington, said he would apologise to Ivanka, who he is due to meet during his trip.
“I will be apologizing for the fact that either our civil service or elements of our political class have not lived up to the expectations.
“This is either we have or the U.S. has about their behaviour, which in this particular case has lapsed in a most extraordinary and unacceptable way,’’ he said.
“Malicious leaks of this nature are unprofessional, unethical and unpatriotic and can actually lead to a damage to that relationship which can, therefore, affect our wider security interest.’’
The revelations come at a time when Britain is hoping to strike a major trade deal with its closest ally after it leaves the EU, an exit currently scheduled for Oct. 31.
Trump told reporters of Darroch: “We are not big fans of that man and he has not served the UK well, so I can understand and I can say things about him but I won’t bother.
In memos to his government dating from 2017 to the present, Darroch said reports of in-fighting in the White House were “mostly true’’ and in June described confusion within the administration over Trump’s
decision to call off a military strike on Iran.
“We don’t really believe this administration is going to become substantially more normal; less dysfunctional; less unpredictable; less faction riven; less diplomatically clumsy and inept,’’ Darroch wrote in one memo, according to the Mail on Sunday.
Fox echoed a statement from Britain’s Foreign Office that the views Darroch had expressed were not those of the British Government itself.
Former Defence Minister, Michael Fallon, said Darroch’s term as ambassador was due to come to an end soon.
“All ambassadors are asked to report all the time honestly about the different strengths and weaknesses of the governments they are posted to,’’ he said.
“It’s obviously damaging to any relationship when this sort of stuff gets published.’’
Nigel Farage, leader of Britain’s Brexit Party and a long thorn on the side of British governments, said figures such as Darroch would “not be around” if ex-foreign minister Boris Johnson, one of two candidates seeking to replace Theresa May as prime minister, was chosen by Conservative Party members.
However, in spite being close to Trump, Farage ruled himself out of becoming Britain’s next ambassador in Washington.
“I don’t think I’m the right man for that job,’’ he said. 
The impromptu encounter saw Trump briefly crossing over the demarcation line — becoming the first sitting US president to step into Pyongyang’s territory.
It came months after their second summit in Hanoi broke down over what the nuclear-armed North would be willing to give up in exchange for sanctions relief.
After around an hour of talks in Panmunjom — the “truce village” in the DMZ that has divided the peninsula since the two sides and their allies fought each other to a stalemate in 1953 — Trump emerged to say the two would begin working-level talks in the next few weeks.
He also invited the North’s leader to Washington “at the right time”, he added.
It was a more substantive outcome than many had expected after Trump issued his Twitter invitation to Kim and said the meeting could be as short as two minutes to simply “say hello”.
But analysts questioned whether it would be enough to create sustainable progress in a process that has already been running for years and has regularly become bogged down.
Vipin Narang, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the “reality show theatrics” of Panmunjom were worth it if they led to effective working-level talks.
“If not, then we will keep tuning into this same show for the next 15 months,” he added.
While the Trump administration is adamant it wants to see North Korea give up its nuclear arsenal, Pyongyang has never publicly declared it is willing to do so, referring instead to the wider and more ambiguous “denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula”.
The North is seeking relief from wide-ranging sanctions imposed on it over its weapons programmes, and has offered to close part of its Yongbyon nuclear centre, but specialists say it has other facilities producing material for weapons.
The Panmunjom meeting gave both leaders “a good reason to seek dialogue again”, said Hong Min, a senior researcher at the South’s state-run Korea Institute for National Unification.
‘Pushes and nudges’
But Mintaro Oba, a former State Department official in the Obama administration, called it a “temporary burst of momentum”.
“We are engaged in a sort of ‘defibrillator diplomacy’ with North Korea: keeping the process alive through an occasional injection of energy, but never treating the underlying disease,” Oba tweeted.
How much progress the talks will make is open to question, experts say.
Since the Hanoi summit collapse, Pyongyang has accused Washington of acting in “bad faith” and given it until the end of the year to change its approach, and last month fired short-range missiles for the first time since November 2017.
In recent months Pyongyang has also slammed Trump’s top aides — National Security Adviser John Bolton and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo — and demanded their removal from talks.
“That could create problems,” said Go Myong-hyun, an analyst at the Asan Institute of Policy Studies.
For both participants, though, the meeting had its uses.
With a presidential election in the US next year, Trump’s dramatic steps into North Korea will be a “useful tool” on the campaign trail, said Koo Kab-woo, a professor at the University of North Korean Studies in Seoul.
For its part, the North has long wanted to be treated as an equal to the US and sought to have Bill Clinton visit Pyongyang before his term expired.
It will welcome Sunday’s symbolism, said former CIA analyst Soo Kim.
“Kim didn’t have to lift a finger to get Trump to cross the DMZ,” she told AFP, even though there had been “no progress on denuclearisation”, and the North was continuing to advance its nuclear capabilities, test missiles and evade sanctions.
The short-notice meeting fits right into Pyongyang’s playbook, she said, sending a message to the North that US policy was “quite porous” and suggesting that “with subsequent pushes and nudges, Kim will get his own way”.
An Israeli government official said earlier in the day that the country may prevent the visit despite having signalled previously the congresswomen would be allowed in.
Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib, who is of Palestinian origin, are expected at the weekend for a visit to Israel and the Palestinian territories.
“It would show great weakness if Israel allowed Rep. Omar and Rep. Tlaib to visit,” Trump wrote on Twitter.
“They hate Israel & all Jewish people, & there is nothing that can be said or done to change their minds. Minnesota and Michigan will have a hard time putting them back in office. They are a disgrace!”
Tlaib is from Michigan and Omar from Minnesota.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu held consultations on the visit on Wednesday and a final decision is being weighed, the government official said on condition of anonymity.
“There is a possibility that Israel will not allow the visit in its current proposed format,” the official said, in comments prior to Trump’s tweet. 
“Professional teams and legal counsel in various government ministries are continuing to examine the decision. According to Israeli law, the authority lies with the minister of the interior.”
The official, however, added that “if Congresswoman Tlaib makes a humanitarian request to visit her family, the decision on her matter will be considered favourably”.
In 2017, Israel passed a law banning entry to foreigners who support boycotting the country.
The law was passed in response to a movement to boycott Israel as a means to pressure the country over its treatment of the Palestinians.
Israel sees the movement as a strategic threat and accuses it of anti-Semitism — claim activists deny, saying they only want to see the occupation end.
Prominent Arab Israeli parliament member Ayman Odeh said: “A state that has nothing to hide would not think of preventing the arrival of two members of Congress.”
“Another desperate attempt to hide the reality to the world,” he wrote on Twitter.
 Outspoken Trump critics 
Both Omar and Tlaib have been critical of Israel’s occupation of the West Bank and treatment of Palestinians.
The Democrats have also faced accusations of anti-Semitism, which they firmly deny.
The Israeli ambassador to the United States, Ron Dermer, had previously signalled the two congresswomen would be allowed to visit out of respect for Washington, Israel’s most important ally.
But the two are also outspoken political opponents and critics of Trump, who has a close relationship with Netanyahu.
Known as “the squad,” the congresswomen — along with two other progressive congressional allies, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ayanna Pressley — have been in Trump’s crosshairs.
He has taken aim at the four in a series of xenophobic comments, telling them to “go back” where they came from and accusing them of having “love” for America’s “enemies like Al-Qaeda,” among other remarks.
Ocasio-Cortez, a 29-year-old of Puerto Rican ancestry, is the youngest member of the House of Representatives, while Pressley is the first African American elected to Congress from Massachusetts.
Tlaib and Omar, who fled war-torn Somalia as a child and arrived in the United States as a refugee, are the first two Muslim women elected to Congress. 
Tlaib is also the first woman of Palestinian descent in Congress.
Members of Congress are regular visitors to Israel and the Palestinian territories and blocking them would be a highly unusual move. 
It would occur at a time when Jewish groups in the United States have expressed concern over whether bipartisan support for Israel in Washington is eroding.
Democratic candidates for president in the United States have openly criticised Netanyahu, who is seeking re-election in Israel on September 17 after polls earlier this year failed to yield a coalition. 
By far the most serious is the announcement on Tuesday by Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives, that the body is opening a formal impeachment inquiry into Trump over the Ukrainian scandal.
Here is a list of some of the legal woes facing the US president:
- Hush payments -
New York prosecutors have been probing illegal payoffs made by Michael Cohen, Trump's former personal attorney, to buy the silence of at least two women, Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal, who claimed to have had affairs with Trump before he ran for president.
Cohen, who is currently serving a three-year prison term, is potentially a dangerous witness for Trump as a longtime insider who has turned against his former boss.

Read More: Transcript confirms Trump asked Ukraine leader to investigate Biden

The hush payments were part of a "catch-and-kill" arrangement with the National Enquirer tabloid, which, according to Cohen, had a financial arrangement to protect Trump from damaging personal news.
Cohen testified that the payment he made to Daniels, which was ruled an illegal use of campaign funds, was ordered and reimbursed by Trump himself -- a possible criminal act.
- Trump Organization -
In his February testimony in Congress, Cohen raised issues of financial malfeasance by Trump and the Trump Organization in banking and real estate deals. 
Cohen said Trump falsified data in financial disclosures to banks and insurance companies, providing more meat for federal investigators.
For that, eyes have been on the figure who likely knows more secrets about Trump than anyone else: Allen Weisselberg, the accountant who has served the Trump Organization for four decades.
- Trump Foundation -
The Trump Foundation, the former charitable arm of the Trump Organization, is the target of a lawsuit brought by the New York state attorney general.
The Trump Foundation agreed to shut down in December after the attorney general accused it of engaging in a "shocking pattern of illegality." 
Former New York attorney general Barbara Underwood said the Trump Foundation was involved in "unlawful coordination with the Trump presidential campaign, repeated and willful self-dealing, and much more."
The lawsuit names the president, his sons Donald Trump Jr and Eric Trump, and his daughter Ivanka Trump, who were on the board of the foundation.
The suit seeks $2.8 million in restitution and to bar Trump, Don Jr, Eric and Ivanka from serving on the boards of other New York non-profits.
- Tax returns -
Trump has repeatedly refused to release his personal income tax returns and legal efforts are underway in Congress and New York to obtain them.
- Inauguration ceremony -
New York prosecutors are looking into the millions of dollars in funding for Trump's 2017 inauguration ceremony, including whether any money was received from foreign donors.
- Congress -
Democratic-led committees in the House have been investigating allegations of obstruction of justice, abuse of power, Trump's finances,  election campaign funding and other areas.
Pelosi announced on Tuesday that the various probes being conducted by six committees would be grouped under the umbrella of a formal impeachment inquiry.
"The president must be held accountable," she said. "No one is above the law." 
Special Counsel Robert Mueller concluded his probe of Russian meddling in the 2016 election without recommending any charges be filed against a sitting president.
- Emoluments -
Trump is facing several lawsuits alleging he has used his office to enrich himself and violated the "foreign emoluments clause" of the Constitution.
The emoluments clause prohibits a president or other office-holder from profiting from their dealings with foreign governments.
Trump's proposal, for example, that next year's Group of Seven (G7) summit be held at his luxury resort in Florida prompted an outcry that it would violate the clause. 
The attorneys general of Maryland and Washington filed a suit over Trump's continued ownership of a hotel in Washington frequented by lobbyists, company executives and foreign governments.
That suit was thrown out by an appeals court last month but a separate emoluments suit brought by Democrats in Congress is continuing.






In a series of tweets on Saturday, Trump took aim at Democratic Representative Elijah Cummings a high-profile critic of Trump’s administration whose district covers much of the majority black city of Baltimore, Maryland.
“Cumming (sic) District is a disgusting, rat and rodent infested mess,” the president wrote, calling it “the worst run and most dangerous anywhere in the United States.”
“No human being would want to live there,” he said, in an attack ostensibly provoked by Cummings’ criticism of the harsh conditions facing would-be asylum seekers at the US-Mexico border.
Trump’s comments triggered a torrent of criticism and he defended them on Sunday in another burst of tweets.
“There is nothing wrong with bringing out the very obvious fact that Congressman Elijah Cummings has done a very poor job for his district and the City of Baltimore,” Trump said, without adding anything to back up his argument.
“Just take a look, the facts speak far louder than words! The Democrats always play the Race Card, when in fact they have done so little for our Nation’s great African American people,” Trump wrote.
“Now, lowest unemployment in U.S. history, and only getting better. Elijah Cummings has failed badly!”
Saturday’s diatribe ignited a storm of criticism less than two weeks after the House of Representatives condemned Trump for “racist” comments targeting four first-term Democratic congresswomen who are from ethnic minorities.
The top Democrat in Congress, Nancy Pelosi, on Saturday accused Trump of a “racist” attack on a “champion… of civil rights and economic justice, a beloved leader in Baltimore, and deeply valued colleague.” 
“We all reject racist attacks against him,” wrote Pelosi — who was born in Baltimore and whose father served as mayor of the city. 
Former vice president Joe Biden — the Democratic frontrunner to challenge Trump in 2020 — called out the president directly on Twitter.
“It is despicable for you to attack him and the people of Baltimore this way,” Biden wrote. “Once again you have proved yourself unfit to hold the office. A President is supposed to lift this nation up. Not tear it down.”
In another tweet on Sunday, Trump said Pelosi is doing a bad job representing her district in California.
“Speaking of failing badly, has anyone seen what is happening to Nancy Pelosi’s district in San Francisco. It is not even recognizeable lately. Something must be done before it is too late,” he wrote.






Democrat Senator Joe Biden, 76, said Tuesday that if given the chance in a televised debate next year, he could challenge President Donald Trump, 73, to a fitness duel.
Biden — who has faced questions about his age, even from some Democrats, since joining the race — said he runs regularly on the routes of parades he participates in. He did so on the July 4 Independence Day holiday celebration in Independence, Missouri.
The Republican president, on the other hand, is seen as somewhat overweight and gets his exercise mostly in regular rounds of golf, in which he traverses the links by cart.
If Biden wins the Democratic Party nomination and faces Trump in the election in November 2020, though, the president could criticize Biden’s relatively older age in debates between the two.
“I’d say, ‘Come on, Donald, come on, man, how many push-ups do you want to do here, pal?'” the former vice president said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” show.
There was no immediate response from Trump, but he could perhaps counter with a test on the golf course.
That could place Biden at a distinct disadvantage: according to a recent book by respected sportswriter Rick Reilly, “Commander in Cheat,” lifelong golfer Trump regularly breaks golfing rules in order to win.
After the release of a complaint accusing Trump of having solicited “interference from a foreign country in the 2020 US election,” The New York Times reported that the whistleblower is a CIA officer once posted to the White House who is an expert on European issues and the political situation in Ukraine.
Lawyers for the whistleblower have deemed those revelations to be dangerous for their client, both personally and professionally.
Calls to cancel subscriptions to the Times, circulated under the hashtag #CancelNYT, have proliferated on social media, where some have demanded the resignation of executive editor Dean Baquet.
– ‘Tough call’ –
Baquet defended the decision, saying that Trump and some of his supporters had attacked the whistleblower’s credibility and that the publication of the information was aimed at allowing readers to “make their own judgments about whether or not he is credible.”
“I think it is a tough call,” said Jon Marshall, a professor at Northwestern University’s journalism school. “The NYT was caught in a classical ethical dilemma news organizations face with two competing ethical standards to consider.”
These are “to seek the truth and report it,” and “to minimize harm, which includes protecting sources and not putting them in jeopardy,” said Marshall, the author of a book on the legacy of the Watergate scandal and the press.
Like others, Marshall believes there are likely only a handful of people who would fit the description of the whistleblower, and that identifying him “could put him in harm’s way.”
For him, describing the whistleblower as an experienced CIA officer would have been enough to establish his credibility.
While he also believes that the whistleblower could be in danger, Todd Gitlin, a professor of journalism at Columbia University, said the decision to publish the details was justified.
“He must have understood there was a certain risk. He must have taken precautions,” Gitlin said.
Moreover, “he works for an organization that is devoted to security,” and if it failed to protect him, “heads would roll, even in the current political climate.”
– ‘A truth-seeker’ –
Unlike Edward Snowden or Chelsea Manning, who carried out unauthorized leaks of sensitive information, the whistleblower complied with all the rules on filing complaints and worked in consultation with specialized lawyers, said Kathleen McClellan, Deputy Director for the Whistleblower and Source Protection Program at the ExposeFacts NGO.
But whistleblowers from the intelligence community are exposed to the risk of reprisal, McClellan said.
“In the US intelligence community, whistleblowers have no meaningful protection from retaliation,” she said. “If the president retaliates against the whistleblower, the whistleblower has no other remedy than to seek redress with the executive branch.”
“I think the press should respect a whistleblower’s right to remain anonymous,” McClellan said.
She said the credibility argument advanced by the Times does not hold water, as “his credibility has already been established,” with the inspector general to whom he sent the report.
In any case, the whistleblower’s identity will likely be known soon, especially as Congress wants him to testify, Gitlin said.
And if his identity is revealed, “it’ll be one of those names in the history books and around forever, like Daniel Ellsberg,” who leaked the Pentagon Papers, which revealed that successive US administrations had lied to the public about the Vietnam War, presidential historian Douglas Brinkley said in The Washington Post.
“He’ll be remembered as a truth-seeker,” Brinkley said.






Making his first public statement on the high-stakes probe into Moscow’s interference in the 2016 election, the special counsel said longstanding Justice Department guidelines prevented him from charging Trump, despite at least 10 possible acts of criminal obstruction by the president. 
But not indicting Trump was not equivalent to clearing him, Mueller said, suggesting Congress has both the constitutional powers and the responsibility to pursue the case.
“If we had had confidence that the president clearly did not commit a crime, we would have said so,” he said.
Mueller’s oblique allegation of serious wrongdoing sparked a new firestorm in Washington, with Trump again claiming vindication and a rising number of Democrats demanding to open impeachment proceedings. 
“Nothing changes from the Mueller Report. There was insufficient evidence and therefore, in our Country, a person is innocent,” the president tweeted minutes after Mueller finished speaking.
“The case is closed! Thank you.”
But Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren was one of half a dozen White House hopefuls who seized upon Mueller’s remarks, to urge Congress to impeach Trump. 
“Mueller leaves no doubt,” she tweeted. “The Constitution leaves it up to Congress to act — and that’s impeachment.”
 ‘No option’ to charge president 
The taciturn Mueller took to the podium to clarify his original conclusions more than two months after a summary of his report was first released by the Justice Department.
“Russian intelligence officers who were part of the Russian military launched a concerted attack on our political system,” forming the basis for the investigation, said the 74-year-old, long one of the most respected members of the Washington justice establishment.
Mueller’s 448-page report, finally released in redacted form on April 18, detailed multiple contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia, including efforts to take advantage of Moscow’s claimed possession of dirt on Trump’s Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.
But in the end, Mueller said, “There was insufficient evidence to charge a broader conspiracy” of collusion.
As for the obstruction side of the investigation, Mueller explained that from the outset, charging Trump with any federal crime “was not an option that we could consider.” 
According to Justice Department policy, he said, “a president cannot be charged with a federal crime while he is in office. That is unconstitutional.”
That left the public to parse the head-scratching, double-negative conclusion that Mueller’s team could not say that the president did not commit a crime.
Trump has assailed the Russia investigation as a “witch hunt” and a “hoax” that amounted to a “treasonous” attempt to overthrow him.
“The report was clear — there was no collusion, no conspiracy — and the Department of Justice confirmed there was no obstruction,” said White House Spokeswoman Sarah Sanders.
“After two years, the special counsel is moving on with his life, and everyone else should do the same.”
 Pressure on Pelosi 
Mueller made clear, though, that he thought it was up to Congress to pursue the case further.
“The constitution requires a process other than the criminal justice system to formally accuse a sitting president of wrongdoing,” Mueller said.
Mueller’s statement, and his announcement that he was resigning as special counsel to return to private life, piled heavy pressure on Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in Congress, to seriously consider launching the impeachment effort against Trump.
Pelosi has fended off the idea, which would be fraught with political risk for the party 18 months ahead of presidential elections.
She said in a statement that Congress would step up investigations while avoiding the word impeachment.
“The Congress holds sacred its constitutional responsibility to investigate and hold the President accountable for his abuse of power,” she said.
“The American people must have the truth.”
 ‘No one is above the law’ 
Democratic Congressman Jerry Nadler, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee which would take the lead in any impeachment effort, also avoided the “I” word while saying he would push ahead with a probe.
His committee has subpoenaed Mueller probe witnesses, but Mueller said he himself is averse to testifying because the report speaks for the investigation.
House Intelligence Committee chairman Adam Schiff said he can understand such reluctance, but that there are still “a great many questions he can answer that go beyond the report” and Congress looks forward to Mueller’s testimony.
Nadler told reporters: “Trump is lying. He is lying about the special counsel findings, lying about the testimony of key witnesses in the special counsel’s report, and above all, lying and saying that the special counsel found no obstruction and no collusion.” 
It, therefore, falls to Congress to respond to “the crimes, lies and other wrongdoing of President Trump,” he said.
When asked whether that meant pushing ahead with impeachment, Nadler replied: “All options are on the table and nothing should be ruled out.”
Before his official schedule began, Trump tweeted that North Korea had tested “some small weapons” that had “disturbed some of my people, and others, but not me”.
This appeared to be a reference to US National Security Advisor John Bolton, who said Saturday there was “no doubt” the launches had contravened UN Security Council resolutions.
But Trump said: “I have confidence that Chairman Kim will keep his promise to me.”The American president maintains that North Korea’s leader Kim Jong Un has pledged he is serious about denuclearisation, although experts say there is still a wide gulf between the two sides over what that means.
Trump and Abe’s talks are expected to touch on tensions with Pyongyang, which have mounted after a summit in February in Hanoi collapsed without an agreement, and trade negotiations as Tokyo and Washington attempt to thrash out a deal.
On trade, Trump tweeted that “great progress” was being made but “much will wait” until after Japanese upper house elections expected in July — with rumours rife Abe might also call a snap general election at the same time.
The serious diplomacy starts on Monday, when Trump will be the first foreign leader to meet Japan’s new emperor, Naruhito, who has been on the Chrysanthemum Throne for less than a month following his father’s historic abdication.
Sunday was about cementing diplomatic bonds between the two countries through the leaders’ shared passion for golf and a chance for Trump to see one of Japan’s most famous sports — sumo.
‘The President’s Cup’ 
Trump entered the hallowed Ryogoku Kokugikan sumo stadium to loud cheers — and a few scattered boos — with spectators standing to take photos as the US president waved and smiled.He and his wife Melania, accompanied by Abe and his wife Akie, sat in special seats a few rows from the sumo ring.
Front-row seats at the sumo are usually on the floor, but the two couples were given modified seats with backs, and were ringed by security personnel.
Trump looked serious as he listened to explanations from Abe and others around him about the bouts between the sport’s top wrestlers.
The US leader then presented tournament winner, Japanese wrestler Asanoyama, with the “President’s Cup,” a specially made trophy weighing 60-70 pounds (27-32 kilograms) and measuring 54 inches (1.4 metres) that was unveiled to an audible murmur of appreciation from the audience.
A set of wooden steps leading up to the raised “dohyo” sumo ring were installed for Abe and Trump to walk up, with both leaders donning shiny black slippers to enter the space, which is considered sacred.
Trump read in English from a scroll, offering Asanoyama the cup “in honour of your outstanding achievement”, before lifting the massive trophy with the help of a sumo official and presenting it to the wrestler with an enormous grin.
Wagyu and ice cream 
The presidential sumo visit prompted high security, with long lines forming at metal detectors in the blazing heat before the tournament kicked off.
“I thought we would see some level of tight security. But I didn’t realise that it was going to be this much,” 76-year-old Hisato Koizumi from Tokyo told AFP as he waited.
“We got today’s tickets by chance. I don’t like this.”Miyo Hirase, 80, called the measures “overkill.””It’s a pain. There aren’t so many bad people in Japan,” she said.
Excitable fans were also warned against throwing their seat cushions — as tradition dictates whenever a yokozuna or grand champion is felled — lest the president be hit.
After the sumo, self-employed Masamitsu Kurokawa, 56, said Trump had an “aura” and was “in a different class”.Earlier, Trump and Abe kicked off the visit with a round of golf — the fifth time the leaders have played together.
Trump arrived at the course outside Tokyo by helicopter, sporting a red sweater and black trousers with a red USA cap. He was greeted by a casually-dressed Abe, who later tweeted a selfie of the two leaders grinning into the camera.
Aerial footage on local television showed the pair practising and putting on the manicured greens despite the unseasonably warm weather. They were accompanied by Isao Aoki, one of Japan’s most successful golfers.
The two leaders rounded out the day with a meal at a traditional Japanese grill restaurant, with wagyu beef and vanilla ice cream among the menu items.Trump said he and Abe had discussed “trade and military and various other things”.”I think we had a very productive day.”






The Rolling Stones singer said he was “absolutely behind” young climate change activists who had earlier occupied the red carpet at the Venice film festival, where he was starring in the psychological thriller, “The Burnt Orange Heresy”.
Jagger said he deplored how politics has descended into name-calling, “including in my own country this week” — a reference to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson comparing opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn to a “big girls blouse” and a “chlorinated chicken”.
The icon, now 76, bewailed “the polarisation and incivility in public life”, although the one-time bad boy of 1960s rock admitted he was “not always for civility” himself.
“But when you see it now… in so many countries, including my own this last week, but particularly the US, it’s a sea change.
“It is not about manners,” Jagger insisted, saying he was fearful about “where all this polarisation and rudeness and lying is going to lead us.”
But more worrying still, said the singer, was that what little environmental safeguards there were were being swept away across the globe.
‘Vote them out’ 
“We are in a very difficult situation at the moment, especially in the US, where all the environmental controls that were put in place — that were just about adequate — have been rolled back by the current administration so much that they are being wiped out,” he added.
Jagger, who rarely comments on politics, said “the US should be the world leader in environmental control but now it has decided to go the other way.
“I am so glad that people feel so strongly about that that they want to protest,” said, referring to young activists from Greta Thunberg’s Friday for Future movement who sprayed “Listen to your children” and “Make the red carpet green” on the festival’s red carpet.
His co-star Donald Sutherland echoed his call to protest, and urged people to take to the streets and vote out Trump, Johnson and Brazil’s far-right leader Jair Balsonaro.
“Mick is right, the controls (in the US) under Obama were barely adequate — now they are being torn apart. It’s the same in Brazil and they will be torn apart in England” after Brexit,” he warned.
“When you are 85 years old and you have children and grandchildren, we will leave them nothing if we do not vote those people out of office in Brazil and in London and in Washington.
“They are ensuring the ruination of the world”, something that “we have all contributed to”, Sutherland added.
The Venice film festival ends on Saturday night. The winning movie for the last two years has gone on to win best picture at the Oscars.
The parody letter, originally from ABC's "Jimmy Kimmel Live" TV show, is written on mocked-up White House letterhead and addressed to Russia's then-leader Nikita Khrushchev.
"Don't be a dick, ok? Get your missiles out of Cuba," starts the letter pretending to be from president Kennedy.
"Everybody will say 'Yay! Khrushchev! You're the best!' But if you don't everybody will be like 'what an asshole' and call your garbage country 'The Soviet Bunion.'"
The letter echoes the bizarre tone of Trump's October 9 letter to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in which he warned that he would wreck Turkey's economy if its invasion of Syria went too far.
"You don't want to be responsible for slaughtering thousands of people, and I don't want to be responsible for destroying the Turkish economy -- and I will," Trump wrote in a letter many people thought was fake until it was verified by the White House.
"Don't be a tough guy. Don't be a fool," Trump finished, adding: "I will call you later."
The joke letter from Kennedy to Khrushchev ends: "You're really busting my nuts here. Give you a jingle later," before signing off "Hugs, John Fitzgerald Kennedy."
Clinton joked that the letter had been "found in the archives."
Unique communication style 
Democrat Clinton, who was defeated by Republican Trump in the 2016 US election, has backed efforts to impeach him over his dealings with Ukraine and is still regularly targeted by the president during his speeches.
In the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, Kennedy and Khrushchev faced off in a moment of high diplomatic tension that threatened to tip the world into nuclear war.
The United States had detected Soviet missile installations in Cuba, just off the Florida coast, and Kennedy imposed a blockade of the island.
Soviet ships laden with nuclear missiles heading for Cuba turned back at the last minute after a secret agreement with Washington.
Trump has defended his diplomacy in the Middle East and his military pullout from northern Syria, which cleared the way for Turkey's cross-border attack against Kurdish forces.
Trump's idiosyncratic communication style was also on display on Twitter Sunday when he misspelled the name of his Defense Secretary Mark Esper as "Esperanto" -- the little-used universal language invented in 1887.
He corrected his error some hours later.
The event at the Trump National Doral course in Florida was to raise money for a local charity and was offering players the “caddy girl of your choice,” according to Shadow Cabaret, the Miami-area club that organized it.
“Due to the climate of everything surrounding our golf tournament, Shadow Cabaret has decided to cancel the event. We want to apologize to anyone that may have been offended by the tournament,” it said on its Facebook page.
Shadow Cabaret’s website billed the tournament as “Miami’s sexiest charity event of 2019” and featured a pink lipstick kiss imprint on a golf ball in a flyer-like announcement that also included the Trump family crest in the bottom right corner.
The event was to kick off with “meet your caddy girl” on Friday, followed by the tournament and a “gala show” on Saturday, the announcement said.
The Trump Organization and the Miami Allstars Foundation — the basketball-related non-profit that was to benefit from the event — also announced the cancellation, according to the Washington Post.
The Post reported Wednesday that Carlos Alamilla, the director of Miami Allstars, had paid little attention to the planned event and not seen the advertisements until the newspaper called him.
After that, he called the club and said: “We’re not participating, and I think you should cancel the event,” the Post said.
The Trump Organization said in a statement carried by US media that since “the charity has removed its affiliation, the event will no longer be taking place at our property and all amounts paid will be refunded.”
“Our intention was to raise money for a deserving local charity. Trump Doral, the hotel, has no association with our company outside of simply allowing us to rent the golf course,” Shadow Cabaret said.
Experts and fans alike at the Gamescom trade fair in the German city of Cologne rejected the link between popular first-person shooter games and real-life massacres that have become tragically common especially in the United States.
“We must stop the glorification of violence in our society,” Trump said after 31 people were killed in two separate back-to-back mass shootings in El Paso, Texas, and Dayton, Ohio, earlier this month.
“This includes the gruesome and grisly video games that are now commonplace — it is too easy for troubled youth to surround themselves with a culture that celebrates violence.”
But Pascaline Lorentz, an expert on the sociology of video gaming, charged that “Donald Trump’s argument is totally outdated”. 
“It has been more than 20 years since studies on violence in video games and films completely deconstructed this argument,” she told AFP.
“These studies say that there is no causal link between violence in games and violent acts perpetrated by players.”
The sociologist argued that playing violent video games is even a healthy way to let off steam.
“It feels good to let go of yourself,” she said, adding that people need to “cry, scream, run or strike to bring out some negative emotions”.
“What is dangerous is blocking the process of emotional and sensory balancing.”
 Shoot’em up 
It’s a sentiment shared by Celina Bausch, 22, who was waiting to try the latest version of the “Call of Duty” series on show at Gamescom.
“As a player, you’re used to hearing this kind of criticism, but I don’t really take notice as it’s not serious,” she said.
The goal of the gun-totting game is “not to kill” for the sake of killing, but to use tactics to progress through the levels, insisted another queueing fan, Tim Koehler, 21.
Julien Villedieu, from French gaming industry body SNJV, argued that given the diversity of types of games, “reducing video games to violence is a mistake”.
The video gaming industry has long been accused of having a negative impact on the behaviour of gamers, especially young people.
In the United States, the issue first came under the spotlight after the release of violent first-person shoot-’em-up games Wolfenstein 3D (1992) and Doom (1993), which popularised the genre.
Criticism intensified after the murder of 12 pupils and one teacher during the Columbine High School massacre in 1999 in Colorado, committed by teenagers who were fans of Doom.
In comparison, shooting massacres are rare in South Korea or Japan, pioneers of the gaming industry where Nintendo, Sega and Sony originated. Both Asian nations spend more per capita on video games than the United States.
Koehler, the gamer, said he feels Trump’s criticism of gaming aims to distract from liberal US gun laws and the right to bear arms, a cornerstone of the US Constitution.
“Video games are played all over the world, but the main shootings take place in the United States,” he said. 
“Maybe we should look at the problem differently.”
The invitation, extended by Senator Rand Paul with permission from the president, was turned down for now, The New Yorker reported Friday. The minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said it was up to Tehran to decide on accepting it.
Neither the White House nor the State Department responded to AFP requests for comment on the report, which quoted US and Iranian sources and what the magazine called a well-placed diplomat.
Zarif told the magazine he would not want a White House meeting that yielded just a photo op and a two page statement afterward, The New Yorker said.
Trump has said publicly several times that he is willing to hold talks with the Iranians even as he lambasts Tehran as a corrupt, incompetent and dangerous regime that is a threat to regional security and US interests.
Last year Trump pulled the US out of an international accord designed to curb Iran’s nuclear program, and has reimposed sanctions on Iran — and even slapped them on Zarif this week — in an effort to force it to renegotiate the agreement.
Rand had been working for weeks on setting up a meeting with Zarif and on July 15, conferred with him in New York, passing on an invitation from Trump for him to come to the White House, the magazine said.
At the one hour meeting with Rand, Zarif suggested ways to end the nuclear impasse and address Trump’s concerns, The New Yorker said.
Tensions soared in the Gulf in June and July amid attacks on oil tankers, Iran’s downing of an unmanned US surveillance drone and after the US said it had downed an Iranian drone.
Trump has said the attack against the US drone prompted him to order a military strike in response, only to call it off at the last minute.






The September 22 rally — dubbed, with a touch of Texan twang, “Howdy, Modi!” — will mark a rare joint appearance between a US president and a foreign leader before an ethnic community, and be the pair’s third meeting this year.
Organizers say that more than 50,000 people have registered for the event, which will take place inside the NRG Stadium of the Houston Texans football team.
The gathering is “a great opportunity to emphasize the strong ties between the people of the United States and India, to reaffirm the strategic partnership between the world’s oldest and largest democracies and to discuss ways to deepen their energy and trade relationship,” the White House said.
The White House said Trump would travel the same day to Ohio to showcase an Australian-owned factory alongside Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who will be on a state visit.
The two joint appearances amount to a day-long attempt to nurture relationships with foreign leaders by Trump, whose brash style and outspoken remarks have frequently unnerved allies.
The rally with Modi indicates that the two countries have turned the page on an incident in July when Trump baffled India by saying, in a meeting with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, that Modi had sought mediation on Kashmir, a flashpoint for conflict between the nuclear-armed powers.
India has for decades rejected any outside role in Kashmir. Last month, India revoked Kashmir’s autonomous status and snapped communications for much of the Muslim-majority region.
India’s actions drew criticism from the UN human rights chief and rights groups, with Pakistan urging pressure on India, although Trump has voiced support for Modi’s actions. 
 Reaching across aisle 
Trump and Modi have frequently drawn comparisons to each other, with the two right-wing leaders elected on vows to promote the identity of the majority community.
But organizers hope to keep the September 22 rally non-partisan, with a cultural performance planned and invited speakers including Steny Hoyer, the number-two Democrat in the House of Representatives.
The joint event shows “the personal chemistry and friendship” between Trump and Modi, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, the Indian ambassador to the United States, told AFP.
“These are two leaders who are used to thinking outside of the box,” he said, describing the joint appearance as “unconventional and unique.”
“The event will also reflect the strong bipartisan support there has been for US-India relations,” he said, describing Indian-Americans as an “organic bridge” between the world’s two largest democracies.
Shringla said that Modi would also meet in Houston with energy companies before heading to New York for the UN General Assembly.
Some four million Americans trace their origins to India and the community is among the most educated and prosperous in the United States.
The average Indian-American household earned some $100,000 in 2015, nearly double the US average, according to the Pew Research Center.
But while Modi will likely enjoy a rock-star reception in Houston, Indian-Americans are not expected to be a major base for Trump as he gears up to seek another term in next year’s election.
Some 84 percent of Indian-Americans voted in 2016 for his rival Hillary Clinton, making them among the most Democratic-leaning ethnic groups, according to polling by the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund.
During the 2016 campaign, Trump took part in a rally in New Jersey at which he declared, awkwardly, “I love Hindu.”
“I would get a Nobel prize for a lot of things, if they give it out fairly, which they don’t,” he complained.
Trump went on to raise the surprise awarding of the one of the world’s most prestigious accolades in 2009 to his predecessor in the White House Barack Obama.
Obama was given the peace prize for “extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between people,” even though he had only just become president.
“They gave one to Obama immediately upon his ascent to the presidency and he had no idea why he got it. You know what? That was the only thing I agreed with him on,” Trump said.
The US president was speaking at a bilateral meeting with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly.






“@LaraLeaTrump and I are excited to welcome Carolina Dorothy Trump into the world. We love you already!” the president’s son tweeted minutes before Monday midnight.
It is the couple’s second child — their first, Eric Luke Trump, turns two years old in September.
The 73-year-old president has five children from three different women.
His two oldest children, Donald Jr. and Ivanka, have respectively five and three children.
Eric Trump, 35, is the president’s third child. He is a senior executive at The Trump Organization along with his brother Donald Jr.
Lara Trump, 36, a former journalist, is involved in animal welfare and along with her husband manages the Eric Trump Foundation, which finances hospitals for children.
She is also a senior official on the Trump 2020 re-election campaign and is often on TV defending the president’s policies.
The White House said Guatemala would now be considered a “safe third country,” meaning that US-bound migrants who enter Guatemala would be required to seek asylum there instead.
But the US Department of Homeland Security said the term did not appear in the text agreed on Friday, of which few details were initially known.
Trump said the deal will “provide safety to legitimate asylum seekers and stop asylum fraud” in the region.
“This landmark agreement will put the coyotes and smugglers out of business,” the president said, referring to the “bad people” who have trafficked thousands of migrants through Mexico to the southern US border.
In another immigration-related triumph for Trump, the Supreme Court on Friday issued a ruling allowing the president to proceed with plans to divert $2.5 billion in Pentagon funds toward construction of a border wall with Mexico.
“Big VICTORY on the Wall,” Trump tweeted after the ruling. “Big WIN for Border Security and the Rule of Law!”
The dual victories come as the president prepares for his second run at the White House in 2020. Stopping illegal immigration remains a key priority for the Republican, who won the election in 2016 in part on his pledge to build a border wall.
Back to Guatemala 
The asylum agreement with Guatemala comes days after Trump threatened tough retaliation against the small Central American country if it did not sign on to an asylum deal — threatening a travel ban, tariffs, remittance fees or “all of the above.”
Friday’s agreement, signed in the Oval Office by Guatemala’s interior minister, Enrique Degenhart, and US Acting Homeland Security Secretary Kevin McAleenan, would apply to Salvadoran or Honduran migrants passing through Guatemala towards the United States, if not others.
Their asylum claims should now be filed in Guatemala, McAleenan said.
If Central American migrants instead “make a journey all the way to the US border, they would be removable back to Guatemala if they want to seek asylum,” he noted.
The deal is expected to be up and running in August, McAleenan said.
US authorities have recorded a dramatic rise in detentions of migrants over the past year, many of those fleeing chronic poverty and gruesome gang violence in Central America.
‘Not’ safe 
Serious questions about the pact remained.
It was not immediately clear how the agreement signed Friday would jibe with a provision of Guatemala’s constitutional court, which recently blocked the idea of a deal making Guatemala a “safe third country” for asylum requests.
McAleenan conceded that the term “is a colloquialism” and is not in the text itself.
A top Democrat assailed the deal as “cruel and immoral,” as well as illegal, arguing that Guatemala lacks sufficient asylum and protection processes.
“Simply put, Guatemala is not a safe country for refugees and asylum seekers, as the law requires,” said House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Eliot Engel, adding that he expects the “counterproductive” deal to be challenged in the courts.
The non-governmental organization Refugees International called the agreement “very alarming” and said it would put “some of the most vulnerable people in Central America in grave danger” because Guatemala is not safe for refugees and asylum seekers, the group’s president Eric Schwartz said.
McAleenan insisted Guatemala has been undergoing an “evolution” in providing asylum protection.
“Guatemala has had a significant reduction in their murder rate and violent crime rate in the last five years,” he added.
“We expect that to continue.”






After tweeting that two days of trade talks in Washington had been “candid and constructive,” the businessman-turned-politician changed tack and followed through on a threat he had been making for months.
“The President… ordered us to begin the process of raising tariffs on essentially all remaining imports from China, which are valued at approximately $300 billion,” US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement.
The move came less than 24 hours after Washington increased punitive duties on $200 billion worth of Chinese imports, raising them to 25 percent from 10 percent, days after the Trump administration accused Beijing of reneging on its commitments.
Details on the process for public notice and comment will be posted Monday, ahead of a final decision on the new tariffs, Lighthizer said. They were not expected to go into effect for several months.
China’s top trade negotiator, Vice Premier Liu He, had warned earlier that Beijing “must respond” to any US tariffs. 
The developments came as two days of talks to resolve the trade battle ended Friday with no deal, but no immediate breakdown either, offering a glimmer of hope that Washington and Beijing could find a way to avert damage to the global economy.
“Over the course of the past two days, the United States and China have held candid and constructive conversations on the status of the trade relationship between both countries,” Trump tweeted. 
“The relationship between President Xi (Jinping) and myself remains a very strong one, and conversations into the future will continue.”
The tariffs on China “may or may not be removed depending on what happens with respect to future negotiations!”
 Three disagreements 
Liu told reporters the talks had been “productive” and said the two sides would meet again in Beijing at an unspecified date, but he warned that China would make no concessions on “important principles.”
“Negotiations have not broken down, but rather on the contrary, this is only a normal twist in the negotiations between the two countries, it is inevitable,” Liu said.
The seemingly positive messages — coming before the announcement that Trump had ordered the latest round of tariffs — had cheered Wall Street with shares rising after being under pressure all week. 
US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Lighthizer met for about two hours with Liu on Friday and then headed for the White House to brief Trump, who had said he was in no hurry to reach a deal, arguing the United States was negotiating from a position of strength.
“We have a consensus in lots of areas but to speak frankly there are areas we have differences on, and we believe these concern big principles,” Liu said.
Liu pointed to three major areas of disagreement: whether to cancel all trade war tariffs when an agreement is reached, the exact size of Chinese purchases of US goods, and a “balanced” agreement text.
“Any country needs its own dignity, so the text must be balanced,” Liu said.
Liu and his backer Xi cannot be seen as giving in too much with trade concessions to the US in fear of triggering comparisons to past “unequal treaties” forced on China in the 19th and 20th centuries. 
“Every country has important principles, and we will not make concessions on matters of principle,” Liu said.
 ‘Darkness before dawn’ 
Yang Delong, the chief economist at First Seafront Fund Management in Shanghai, told AFP that the “sudden hardening” of Trump’s tone is likely linked to the 2020 US presidential election.
“The US hopes China will make greater concessions in many areas, these concessions might harm a foundation of our economic development or impact our institutional reform,” Yang said.
“When it comes to core interests China is not able to yield,” he said.
Washington is pressing China to change its policies on protections for intellectual property, as well as massive subsidies for state-owned firms, and to reduce the yawning trade deficit.
After weeks of rising optimism about the chances for an agreement, the tone out of the White House has veered from anger to nonchalance. 
In a series of early morning tweets Friday, Trump said there was “absolutely no need to rush” towards a deal.
The US leader continues to argue that tariffs could in some ways be preferable to reaching a trade deal.
“Tariffs will bring in FAR MORE wealth to our country than even a phenomenal deal of the traditional kind,” Trump wrote.
Since last year the United States and China have exchanged tariffs on more than $360 billion in two-way trade, weighing on both countries’ economies.
Economists stress that duties are paid by US companies and consumers and result in higher prices, while farmers and manufacturers complain about the loss of markets for their exports due to retaliation from China.
Liu compared the negotiations to a marathon: “When you get to the last stage it is comparatively the hardest stage, now we need to hold on, it is the darkness before dawn.”
He dismissed thousands of protesters rallying nearby as “fake news” and said he turned down a meeting with Corbyn — who himself took part in the protest — branding him a “somewhat negative force”.
Trump’s state visit began on Monday with a meeting with Queen Elizabeth II and a state banquet, but behind the pageantry, Britain is in political upheaval.
His meeting with May comes just weeks before she is scheduled to quit after failing to get her island nation out of the EU, despite focusing on little else for the past three years.
Trump and May looked stony-faced walking up to their joint press appearance and did not shake hands before going into formal talks at the prime minister’s Downing Street headquarters.
Nearby, noisy activists took to the streets to protest everything from Trump’s dismissive views on climate change to his embrace of anti-abortion groups.
“Everything Trump stands for — misogyny, climate denying — everything about him is wrong,” one demonstrator, marble restorer Steve Gray, told AFP.
 ‘Everything on table’ 
The president’s visit is technically centred around Wednesday’s D-Day 75th anniversary commemorations.
But it comes at an especially chaotic time for the UK, with May formally stepping down as leader of her Conservative party on Friday.
She will stay on as prime minister until her successor is chosen out of 12 contenders from her party.
Whoever takes over will have to make some tough choices before the twice-delayed Brexit deadline on October 31.
Trump preceded his visit by urging Britain to walk away from the EU without an agreement.
He also suggested that Brexit-backing former foreign minister Boris Johnson would be an “excellent” leader to get it done.
The two spoke by phone for 20 minutes on Tuesday, according to a source close to Johnson. Trump was also said to have set up a meeting with another candidate, Environment Secretary Michael Gove.
With the US increasingly isolated from its traditional allies, Trump talked up the “special relationship” with Britain during a joint press conference with May.
Trump said he was certain the sides could reach an understanding on Chinese telecoms giant Huawei that could avoid disruption in intelligence-sharing between London and Washington.
“We have an incredible intelligence relationship and we will be able to work out any differences. I see absolutely no limitation,” said Trump, who has effectively banned the Chinese firm at home over fears it could be used to spy for Beijing.
But US-UK relations are also being tested by different approaches to Iran and climate change, besides Trump’s personal politics and antics.
“We can also differ sometimes on how to confront the challenges we face,” May noted, highlighting the climate and Iran.
“I’ve always talked openly with you, Donald when we have taken a different approach and you’ve done the same with me.”
Trump himself touched on the difficulties likely to face May’s successor, stressing that “everything is on the table” in future trade talks.
Britain is particularly concerned that its beloved state-run health service could be opened up to US companies.
 Noisy protests 
Their talks were accompanied by noisy protests from thousands of anti-Trump activists.
One group paraded a life-size doll of Trump — wearing his trademark red “Make America Great Again” cap — sitting on a toilet with a phone in his hands.
“It’s hard to even know where to start with Trump,” said Norwegian college student Helen Thuen.
“It’s about the policies, that’s what really matters. His personality affects his policies, though.”
Trump’s day will be rounded off with a lavish dinner at the US ambassador’s residence.
The heir to the throne Prince Charles and his wife Camilla will attend on behalf of the queen.
The Lagos-based rights group, in an open letter, asked Trump to exercise his constitutional powers “pursuant to the Presidential Proclamations 7750 and 8697” by instructing the U.S. Secretary of State and U.S. Ambassador in Nigeria to do so.
SERAP also urged Trump to “use the Presidential Proclamation 8697 (which allows the U.S. Department of State to deny visas to foreign officials, their families and friends) who participate in serious human rights violations and other abuses such as misusing the criminal justice system to jail journalists, bloggers and activists to prevent them from reporting on allegations of corruption and other related cases.”
The letter followed SERAP’s report entitled ‘A Downward Spiral: How Federal and State Authorities are Tightening the Screws on Media Freedom in Nigeria’ launched today in Lagos.
In the letter dated October 30, 2019 and signed by its deputy director, Kolawole Oluwadare, the organisation stated: “Democracy demands ‘maximum disclosure’ of all government-held information, and this won’t happen without respect for media freedom and the citizens’ rights to know.
“Undue restrictions on media freedom and the right to know would imply nothing short of abrogation of the ideals of democracy and good governance. Citizens’ right to know is vital for social welfare and other human rights.”
Media freedom and the right of citizens to know, the group added, constitute a crucial bulwark of democracy.“It is essential that for the general progress of a democratic society if people are to effectively monitor their governments’ affairs and democratically participate in the running of society, they must have access to government-held information, which the media should be allowed to freely report.”
SERAP’s report documented the increasing cases of harassment, intimidation, arbitrary arrest, detention and death of journalists, bloggers and other media workers while carrying out their legitimate work.






“I see nothing compromising in the conversation between Trump and (Ukrainian leader Volodymyr) Zelensky,” Putin said of the phone call that has sparked an impeachment probe in the US.
“President Trump turned to a colleague with a request to investigate possible corruption relating to members of the former administration,” the Russian leader said at an energy forum in Moscow. 
“Any head of state would have had to do the same.”
“They have already been using any excuse to attack President Trump. Now it’s Ukraine,” Putin added.
Putin also took aim at the Mueller Report, which concluded that Russia tried to swing the 2016 election in the Republican’s favour but did not establish evidence of collusion between the Trump camp and Moscow.
“He didn’t find any evidence of us colluding with Trump in the past but said there was a risk we might do so in the future… It would be funny if it weren’t so sad,” said Putin.
Asked if Russia would try to meddle in the US 2020 presidential election, Putin joked: “I’ll let you into a secret — yes! We absolutely will… Just don’t tell anybody.”
The White House last week released a transcript of a call this summer between Trump and a recently elected Zelensky. 
It showed that Trump asked Zelensky to probe Democratic rival Joe Biden, and the Democrats are looking into whether Trump used a delayed $400 million (365.8 million euros) aid package as leverage.
Ukraine is fighting an ongoing war in its east against Russia-backed separatists, which broke out after Moscow’s annexation of Crimea in 2014.
The dates fixed by the space agency are 2024 for the Moon and Mars in 2033, but according to experts and industry insiders, reaching the Red Planet by then is highly improbable barring a Herculean effort on the scale of the Apollo program in the 1960s.
“The Moon is the proving ground for our eventual mission to Mars,” NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine said at a conference this week.
“The Moon is our path to get to Mars in the fastest, safest way possible. That’s why we go to the Moon.”
According to Robert Howard, who heads up the lab developing future space habitats at the legendary Johnson Space Center in Houston, the hurdles aren’t so much technical or scientific as much as a question of budget and political will. 
“A lot of people want us to have an Apollo moment, and have a president stand up like Kennedy and say, we’ve got to do it and the entire country comes together,” he said. 
“If that happened, I would actually say 2027. But I don’t think that’s going to happen. I think in our current approach, we are going to be lucky to do it by the 2037 date.”
But Howard said if he were to be pessimistic, and assume political dithering lay ahead, “it could be the 2060s.”
 Psychological challenges 
From the design, manufacture, and testing of the rockets and spaceships required to learning the best way to grow lettuce: all the groundwork remains to be done.
Just getting there will take six months at least, as opposed to three days to the Moon. 
The whole mission could take two years since Mars and the Earth are closet to each other every 26 months, a window that must be taken.
Key tasks include finding a way to shield astronauts from prolonged exposure to solar and cosmic radiation, said Julie Robinson, NASA’s chief scientist for the International Space Station.
“A second is our food system,” she added. The current plant system ideas “are not packageable, portable or small enough to take to Mars.”
And then there’s the question of dealing with medical emergencies: astronauts will need to be able to treat themselves in case of any accidents.
“I actually think a big deal is the suits,” added Jennifer Heldman, a NASA planetary scientist.
One of the major gripes of the Apollo astronauts was their gloves, which were too inflated and prevented them from doing dexterous work.
NASA is developing a new suit, the first in forty years, called xEMU, but it won’t be ready for its first outing in the International Space Station for a few more years.
On Mars, dust will be even more of a problem than on the Moon. The Apollo astronauts returned with huge amounts of lunar dust in their modules. Keeping it out of habitats will be critical for a mission that involves spending months on the Red Planet.
Techniques to exploit Martian resources to extract water, oxygen and fuel necessary for humans to live there don’t yet exist — and must be tested on the Moon by the end of this decade.
Finally, there’s the most fundamental question: how will a group of people cope with the psychological stress of being totally isolated for two years?
It won’t be possible to communicate in real time with Houston mission control: radio communications will take between four and 24 minutes between the planets, one-way. NASA plans to test out delayed-communication exercises on board the ISS in the coming years.
Artificial intelligence must also be developed to assist and guide the astronauts.
A researcher commissioned by NASA to study the likelihood of getting to Mars by 2033 concluded the objective was “infeasible.” 
“It isn’t just budget,” said Bhavya Lal of the Science and Technology Policy Institute. “It’s also organization bandwidth, how many things can NASA do at the same time?”
For Lal, the more realistic timeframe was 2039.
E. Jean Carroll said the incident occurred in either 1995 or 1996, when Trump was a prominent real estate developer and she was a well-known magazine writer and host of a television show.
The account, revealed in an excerpt of Carroll’s latest book and published Friday by New York magazine, makes her at least the 16th woman to have accused Trump of sexual misconduct before he became president.
Carroll, 75, says she ran into Trump at the Bergdorf Goodman department store in Manhattan while they were both shopping.
She says that in an initially friendly encounter, Trump asked her for advice on buying a piece of lingerie for an unnamed woman. Then jokingly, they each suggested that the other should try it on.
“The moment the dressing-room door is closed, he lunges at me, pushes me against the wall, hitting my head quite badly, and puts his mouth against my lips,” Carroll wrote.
Pinning her against the wall, Carroll says, Trump proceeded to pull down her tights, unzip his pants and penetrate her — all while himself fully dressed — until she finally managed to push him out and run from the dressing room.
The magazine quoted a senior White House official refuting the “completely false and unrealistic story surfacing 25 years after allegedly taking place.”
The accusation “was created simply to make the president look bad,” the official said.
Carroll never went to the police because, she said, she was afraid of repercussions.
Carroll wrote that she had not come forward sooner because she was afraid of “receiving death threats, being driven from my home, being dismissed, being dragged through the mud.”
“Joining the 15 women who’ve come forward with credible stories about how the man grabbed, badgered, belittled, mauled, molested and assaulted them, only to see the man turn it around, deny, threaten, and attack them, never sounded like much fun,” she wrote.






(FILES) In this file photo taken on November 07, 2019 NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg addresses a press conference with the German chancellor in Berlin. – US President Donald Trump will host NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg in Washington at a time of severe strain within the Atlantic alliance, the White House announced Saturday. (Photo by Tobias SCHWARZ / AFP)
The two leaders will discuss NATO allies’ “progress on increasing defence spending and ensuring more equitable burden-sharing,” the White House statement said.
Trump has been a frequent critic of alliance members, notably Germany, complaining that many have not met their goal of devoting two percent of economic output to defense spending.
Trump and Stoltenberg, who is Norwegian, will also discuss counterterrorism, cyber-security and protecting critical infrastructure.
The Thursday meeting will come a week after NATO came in for cutting criticism from French President Emmanuel Macron, who told The Economist magazine that “what we are currently experiencing is the brain death of NATO.”
Macron cited a general lack of coordination between the US and Europe and the recent unilateral incursion by Turkey, a key member of the 70-year-old military alliance, into northern Syria.
“Strategically and politically,” Macron said, “we need to recognize that we have a problem.” 
Macron was speaking ahead of a NATO summit meeting scheduled for December 3 and 4 in London.
But German Chancellor Angela Merkel, speaking alongside Stoltenberg in Berlin after the Macron interview came out, defended NATO as “indispensable.” 
Macron “used drastic words,” she said, adding, “that is not my view of cooperation in NATO.”
In Washington, the NATO chief will also confer Thursday with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and members of Congress, the alliance said.
That same day, he will attend a ministerial-level meeting of a broad international coalition against the Islamic State group.
This session was requested urgently by France after Trump announced he was pulling US troops out of northern Syria, raising fears that the jihadist organization could stage a comeback.
“At no time was an investigator prevented from escalating activity identified as potentially suspicious” to the Treasury Department, a spokesman for the bank told AFP.
“The suggestion that anyone was reassigned or fired in an effort to quash concerns related to any client is categorically false,” he added.
The New York Times reported Sunday that Deutsche did not follow recommendations from its own money-laundering specialists that some transactions by companies controlled by Trump and his son-in-law Jared Kushner should be flagged to authorities.
Certain dealings in 2016 and 2017, including some with entities and individuals outside the US, set off automated alerts in the bank’s systems, prompting employees to prepare “suspicious activity reports” on some of them.
But executives “rejected their employees’ advice” that they be sent to the Treasury, the NYT reported.
Former employees interviewed by the paper, some speaking on condition of anonymity, alleged culture of blocking suspicious activity reports to protect client relationships at Deutsche, with one saying she was fired after raising concerns.
Deutsche Bank was one of the few major banks to continue to lend to Trump following the bankruptcies of his casinos and other businesses in the 1990s and has lent “billions” to him and Kushner according to the NYT.
“We have increased our anti-financial crime staff and enhanced our controls in recent years and take compliance with the anti-money-laundering laws very seriously,” the Deutsche spokesman said.
While the lender has boosted its compliance staff to around 3,000 people spread around the world, its performance in pursuing financial crime has failed to satisfy some authorities.
Last year, German market watchdog Bafin took the unprecedented step of naming audit firm KPMG as an independent supervisor of Deutsche’s progress on squeezing out money-laundering and other illicit activities.
That role has been extended to cover so-called “correspondent banking” after Deutsche was drawn into a massive money-laundering scandal around Denmark’s Danske Bank.
“We did it once and we’re going to do it again,” he promised some 20,000 ecstatic supporters in Orlando, Florida. 
“And that is why tonight I stand before you to officially launch my campaign for a second term as president of the United States.”
There were no substantial new ideas or plans for the future in Trump’s nearly 80-minute speech in the Orlando arena, where the crowd formed a sea of Trump campaign red baseball caps, chanting “USA” and “Four More Years.”
Instead, the unconventional Republican made his reelection pitch by touting economic gains, renewing his longstanding vow to build a wall along the Mexican border.
In a speech filled with his customary boasts and rhetorical exaggerations, Trump did say — though giving no detail — that he would oversee cures for cancer and AIDS and pave the way to send US astronauts to Mars.
But the meat of his address aimed at the grievances and fears of the same white working and middle-class voters who underpinned his surprise victory as an utterly inexperienced politician against the seasoned Hillary Clinton in 2016.
Striking a dark note, Trump repeatedly encouraged the crowd to boo journalists covering the event, calling them “fake news.”
Then Trump turned on the Democrats, whom he said have “become more radical, more dangerous, and more unhinged than at any point in the modern history of our country.”
“They want to destroy you and they want to destroy our country as we know it,” he said to roars of boos. “Not acceptable. It’s not going to happen.”
Even if dismal early poll numbers show he faces a difficult race, Trump goes into his fight buoyed by this fiercely loyal right-wing base.
Trump — himself accused by opponents of a slew of serious crimes — told the crowd that together they had formed “a great political movement” that had “stared down a broken and corrupt political establishment.”
“We are going to keep America great again,” Trump told the packed arena in Orlando, Florida. “Oh, we will keep it so great.”
 Economy and immigration 
Supporters lined Orlando’s downtown sidewalks all day, waiting in tents and chairs overnight to be the first in the door.
“This is a historic event, we would not miss this for anything,” one fan, David Meloney, told AFP.
Florida will be one of the key swing states in 2020 if Trump is to defeat the nominee chosen from a field of 23 Democratic hopefuls.
Trump’s strongest card is the current health of the US economy, which he described as “the envy of the world.”
But Trump said that the “American dream” itself is in peril from illegal immigrants, insisting that his stuttering Mexico wall project would still go ahead.
“Illegal mass migration brings in millions of low wage workers to compete for jobs, wages, and opportunities against the most vulnerable Americans, cutting off their path to the American dream,” he said.
Oddly, he did not mention his announcement earlier in the day that he was ordering the deportation of “millions of illegal aliens.”
The startling threat was announced in a tweet in the morning but quickly was followed by media reports that government officials had no idea what the president was planning.
Hours before the rally, the president had insisted that officials were in fact on board with the project.
“They’re going to start next week,” he told journalists at the White House.
 Polls indicate tight race 
After more than two drama-filled years at the White House, the fast-talking real estate salesman is betting that Republicans and enough centrist blue collar workers will turn out again in 2020.
But there’s no question that a lengthy probe into Trump’s murky dealings with Russia and his divisive, bruising style has left him wounded.
A wide range of polls shows Trump lagging far behind Democratic frontrunner Joe Biden, who is campaigning on a promise to return the country to what he portrays as the calmer, gentler days of Barack Obama, under whom he served as vice president.
Another big Democratic candidate, the left-wing Senator Bernie Sanders, scorned Trump after the Florida speech.
“Listening to Trump made me feel very much like he is a man living in a parallel universe… and is a man who must be defeated,” Sanders said.
A Quinnipiac University poll released Tuesday showed Biden leading Trump 50-41 percent in Florida, while Senator Bernie Sanders is up 48-42 percent over the president in the state.
Polls so far in advance have limited value and in 2016 they famously failed to predict Trump’s defeat of Democrat Hillary Clinton. If anything, the surveys point to another bitterly fought, tight race.
But in a sign of frayed nerves, Trump has lashed out at what he calls “fake” polling, while multiple US media reports say that his campaign has fired several of its own pollsters.
“The reality is the contrary,” senior foreign ministry official Kwon Jong Gun said in a statement carried by the state news agency KCNA.
“The South Korean authorities would better mind their own internal business,” he added, in a stinging rebuke to the North’s neighbour days before US President Donald Trump arrives in Seoul amid a nuclear deadlock.
Negotiations between Pyongyang and Washington have been stalled since February when a second summit between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un collapsed in Hanoi as the pair failed to agree on what the North would be willing to give up in exchange for sanctions relief.
The two sides have had minimal contact since — aside from exchanges of letters between their leaders.
The dovish Moon said Wednesday that “behind-the-scenes talks” were going on between the US and the North with a view to preparing for a third summit.
“Also underway is a dialogue between the South and the North through diverse channels,” he added in a written interview with leading media.
But Kwon, the director-general of the North’s Department of American Affairs, slammed the South on Thursday, denying that “various forms of exchanges and closed-door meetings” were under way between the Koreas.
Southern authorities were trying to “make their presence felt” by posing as a mediator, he said.
Dialogue between Pyongyang and Washington “would not open by itself”, he went on, but if the North had to contact Washington it would use “the liaison channel already under operation”.
“The South Korean authorities have nothing to meddle in,” he added.
Moon, who favours engagement with Pyongyang, brokered last year’s talks between Trump and Kim, and has held three summits with the North Korean leader.
 ‘Like a parrot’ 
Trump is due to fly to Seoul at the weekend for a summit with South Korean President Moon Jae-in, and the US special representative for North Korea Stephen Biegun arrived Thursday to prepare the visit.
The North’s statement reminded Washington that it did not have much time left until Kim’s end-of-year deadline to adopt “a correct method of calculation” to revive dialogue.
“The US repeatedly talks about resumption of dialogue like a parrot without considering any realistic proposal that would fully conform with the interests of both sides,” Kwon said.
Trump and Kim held a groundbreaking summit in Singapore last year — the first-ever meeting between a North Korean leader and a sitting US president — where the pair signed a vaguely worded deal on denuclearisation.
But in Hanoi, Washington accused Pyongyang of effectively demanding an end to all sanctions for partial disarmament, while the North said it wanted some measures eased in return for closing all the nuclear facilities at its Yongbyon complex.
While the North has not responded to US offers of working-level talks, the two leaders have maintained written contact.
On Sunday, the North’s state media said Kim received a personal message “of excellent content” from the US president, just days after Trump said Kim had sent him a “beautiful letter”.
It was the 12th letter exchanged between Kim and Trump since the start of 2018, according to Kim Yeon-chul, the South’s unification minister in charge of inter-Korean affairs.
Kim wrote eight of them and Trump four, he told reporters.
“I guess those leaders recognise the importance of resuming the dialogue between the two countries as they are constantly exchanging letters.”
Trump’s visit to the South had fuelled media speculation over a possible trilateral summit with Kim and Moon, but Trump himself has said he will not be meeting Kim.
Moon’s security adviser Moon Chung-in said Thursday it was up to Pyongyang to act to break the deadlock.
“It seems the US wants to talk to the North, we also want to talk to the North,” he told a forum in Seoul. “The North actually does not want to talk unless the US expresses its willingness to accept the North Korean proposal.
“We are back in a very difficult situation. North Korea first needs to make that decision to talk and offer something the US is willing to accept.”
Several Swedish politicians protested Trump’s remarks after the president took to Twitter on Thursday to express his frustration.
“Very disappointed in Prime Minister Stefan Lofven for being unable to act. Sweden has let our African American Community down in the United States,” Trump tweeted, adding: “Give A$AP Rocky his FREEDOM.”
He also tweeted “We do so much for Sweden but it doesn’t seem to work the other way around.”
But Swedish politicians were quick to offer rebuttals, with some highlighting that the charges against the rapper, stemming from a June street brawl in Stockholm, were laid by prosecutors and were not arbitrary.
“So, what is it you do for us MR President?,” MEP Fredrick Federley tweeted.
Former prime minister Carl Bildt echoed earlier responses by the Swedish government and pointed to the independence of the Swedish judiciary.
“That’s the way it is in the US, and that’s certainly the way it is in Sweden. Political interference in the process is distinctly off limits! Clear?” Bildt tweeted.
In a comment to newspaper Aftonbladet, Bildt also commended the government for choosing not to engage, saying it was wise to avoid “mud wrestling with Trump”.
 All ‘equal before the law’ 
Natali Sial, a spokeswoman for the Swedish government, said they did not have anything further to add after Trump’s latest statements.
“In Sweden everyone is equal before the law. The White House has been informed of this. Now the judicial process will run its course,” Sial told AFP.
Former US ambassador to Sweden Azita Raji also chimed in to show support for the Scandinavian nation.
“As Sweden leads by example in showing that everyone is equal before the law, the US struggles to show that no one is above the law,” Raji wrote on Twitter.
 #FreeRocky 
The 30-year-old US rapper, whose real name is Rakim Mayers, was arrested on July 3 along with three other people following the brawl on June 30. One of the others, the rapper’s bodyguard, was later released.
Mayers claims he acted in self-defence. But on Thursday  prosecutor Daniel Suneson said he was pressing charges against Mayers and the two others “because in my judgement what has happened amounts to a crime, despite the objections about self-defence and provocations.”
Part of the fight was captured in an amateur video published by US celebrity news outlet TMZ. The rapper later published videos of his own to Instagram purporting to show the lead-up to the fight.
But Suneson said he has “more material to consider than what has been available on the internet”.
On July 5 the court-ordered Mayers kept in custody pending investigation as he was considered a “flight risk”.
Suneson’s decision to press charges means the rapper can be kept in custody until his trial which is scheduled to take place over three days, starting on July 30.
Assault carries a maximum penalty of two years in jail in Sweden.
Since his arrest, fans, fellow artists and US Congress members have campaigned for his release.
An online petition called #JusticeForRocky has garnered more than 630,000 signatures.
On Tuesday one fan was arrested at the Swedish embassy in Washington after she allegedly damaged property and swore at staff in protest at the country’s treatment of the rapper.
The musician, who had his breakthrough in 2011 with the release of the mixtape “Live. Love. A$AP”, was on a European tour at the time of his arrest and has already had to cancel over a dozen shows.
Despite Biden’s sluggish start, President Donald Trump is already fixating on the former vice president as his main rival in next year’s election, going so far as to invoke North Korea’s dictator in a tweet criticizing Biden last weekend during a trip to Asia.
When Biden does hit the trail, he routinely promises that “no one is going to work longer and campaign harder” to win voter trust and support in the run-up to 2020.
But since officially launching his White House bid in April, the veteran Democrat has made fewer than a dozen campaign stops, and his team has routinely offered a daily update to reporters: “Joe Biden has no public events scheduled.”
His participation in a teachers’ union town hall Tuesday in Houston, Texas will be his first public campaign event in 10 days.
During that period, Senator Cory Booker has crisscrossed Iowa in an RV camper; Bernie Sanders, number two in the Democratic polls, has campaigned in four states; and Senator Elizabeth Warren has held no less than eight public events, including four on Sunday.

Read More: Biden to hit campaign trail before blue-collar supporters

After his campaign kickoff rally on May 18 in Philadelphia, the 76-year-old Biden has largely kept his head down, attending fundraisers in Florida and Tennessee. Fundraisers are also set for this week in Texas.
– ‘Just wait and see’ –
While Biden has eased into the race, Trump has not hesitated to attack him, including sending eyebrow-raising tweets during his visit to Japan amid tensions with North Korea and its leader Kim Jong Un.
Trump tweeted Saturday that he “smiled when (Kim) called Swampman Joe Biden a low IQ individual, & worse.”
On Tuesday, the Biden camp pushed back firmly, calling the president’s comments “beneath the dignity of the office” and part of a pattern of Trump “embracing autocrats.”
“To be on foreign soil, on Memorial Day, and to side repeatedly with a murderous dictator against a fellow American and former Vice President speaks for itself,” deputy campaign manager Kate Bedingfield said in a statement.
Advisors have argued that because of his near-universal name recognition, and popularity within Democratic circles, Biden does not need to relentlessly introduce himself to voters, as several other candidates are doing.
His commanding lead in early polling also signals that media attention will follow him wherever and whenever he hits the campaign trail.
Biden senior advisor Symone Sanders said at the Philadelphia rally that the candidate will soon ramp up his campaigning.
“He knows that folks have questions about his stamina, his ability to go long days, long nights,” she said. “What he’ll tell you is ‘just watch, just wait and see.'”






While England takes on Norway in Le Havre later on Thursday and Saturday sees Italy face the Netherlands and Germany up against Sweden, it will be the winner of the encounter at the Parc des Princes who will become the tournament’s team to beat.
This World Cup has broken all manner of records for television audiences globally, and Friday’s match should continue the trend, with the intervention of U.S. President Donald Trump merely adding to the interest.
On Wednesday, Trump took aim at American captain Megan Rapinoe, who had said that she would not attend any title celebrations for the team at the White House.
While Trump’s criticism of Rapinoe led to statements of solidarity from some of her teammates — it will surely not be lost on the French that their opponents are discussing their celebration plans just hours before a World Cup quarter-finals.
If France coach Corinne Diacre needs some additional material to fire her players up, then the recent suggestion from American defender Ali Krieger that the U.S.’s reserves could beat any of the teams at the World Cup would surely feature.
“We have the best team in the world and the second-best team in the world,” she said after the group stage win over Chile, and while the strength in depth of the U.S. squad is indeed impressive, the French will provide their toughest test yet.
The hosts, however, have yet to truly shine, needing extra time to grind their way past Brazil with a 2-1 win in the previous round.
“Obviously, I know my players inside out. I know that we weren’t 100 per cent (against Brazil) and the objective is to hit that 100 per cent for the next game,” Diacre said.
“Will this happen? I don’t know. I don’t have a magic wand. I don’t have a crystal ball. I can’t see into the future. But it’s something that we’re working on.”
Diacre will look to her core of players from European champions Olympique Lyonnais.
If center back Wendie Renard, midfielder Amandine Henry, left wing back Amel Majri and striker Eugenie Le Sommer are all on top form, the Americans will have plenty of work to do.
Yet for all their entire swagger, the U.S. hardly looked like world-beaters themselves as they laboured to a 2-1 win over Spain, needing two penalties, with the second a highly questionable decision, to make it to the last eight.
There has been much talk of grit and determination from the only non-European team left in the competition, but those qualities alone will not be enough to ensure progress against a French side, capable of clever possession football.
“To me it’s going to be an amazing game, probably crazy and a lot of intensity, as it should be because I truly think this is the world game for women,” said coach Jill Ellis.
Yet the heat-wave that is hitting Paris will mean Friday’s match will likely be played in energy-draining, humid conditions and while the fitness of the American team is as impressive as their self-belief, a slower game could help the hosts.
Alex Morgan is the tournament’s top scorer so far with five goals, but the three-time champions U.S. possess a real threat from the bench with Christen Press and Carli Lloyd, players who can make an impact late in games.
Rapinoe’s work-rate and experience in midfield is central to the Americans’ approach and before her spat with Trump exploded, she captured the essence of what this quarter-final is all about.
“I think this is the game that everyone had circled,” she said. “It’s going to be a great match…these are the games you dream about as a kid.” 
Washington abandoned a landmark 2015 nuclear deal between Tehran and world powers last year and reimposed sanctions on the Islamic republic’s crucial oil sales as well as other parts of the economy.
“I think one of the reasons for sanctions against Iran and Venezuela is opening up the market for American oil sales,” Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said in an interview with state TV late Sunday, a transcript of which was provided by his ministry’s SHANA news agency.
“This much oil production needs a market and could not be compensated for with regular OPEC cuts, therefore America needed to shock the market to find a place for itself. Some sanctions are (imposed) so that Americans can keep producing and developing shale oil,” he added.
New technology that allows for extracting oil and gas from shale rock formations has led to a boom in oil production in the US in recent years.
Zanganeh said that according to US figures, shale oil’s breakeven cost can be as low as $40 per barrel.
Benchmark Brent crude was trading at around $64 dollars a barrel in London on Monday.
The US is currently the world’s biggest oil producer followed by Russia and Saudi Arabia, and is set to become a net exporter from 2021, according to the International Energy Agency.
The White House said in April that tightening sanctions on Iran will have “no material impact” on oil prices given the large supply of US oil on the global market.
OPEC, pressured by US output, abundant global crude supplies and weak oil demand growth, agreed last week to extend by nine months daily oil output cuts first announced in December aimed at supporting prices and soaking up excess supplies.
Iran, whose production has been severely hit by US sanctions, is exempt from the cuts agreement along with crisis-stricken Venezuela and Libya.
Battling what he called “the most severe organised sanctions in history,” Zanganeh last week vowed to keep selling oil via “unconventional means”.
Iran’s state TV recently aired a programme showing an Iranian-flagged tanker under US sanctions that delivered one million barrels of crude oil to China, one of the remaining partners to the nuclear deal and which has rejected Washington’s efforts to cut Tehran’s oil exports to zero.
Biden’s allegations prompted a swift rebuke from Trump, who himself accuses the Democratic frontrunner of wrongdoing in Ukraine during his time as vice president under former president Barack Obama.
The back-and-forth recriminations stem from a Washington Post report stating a whistleblower complaint had been filed over Trump’s communications with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, and a “promise” allegedly made by the US leader.
Trump allegedly pressured Zelensky to investigate possible corruption involving Biden and his son Hunter, who had worked with a Ukrainian natural gas company while his father was vice president.
Trump has urged media to “look into” Biden’s comments in early 2016 when the then US vice president said the Obama administration would freeze $1 billion in US loan guarantees unless Kiev fire its top prosecutor, who was looking into the gas company.
“This appears to be an overwhelming abuse of power, to get on the phone with a foreign leader who is looking for help from the United States and ask about me,” Biden told reporters on the campaign trail in the state of Iowa.
“I know what I’m up against, a serial abuser. That’s what this guy is,” Biden continued. “If he sees any threat to his staying in power, he’ll do whatever he has to do. But this crosses the line.”
Biden had on Friday demanded Trump immediately release the transcript of a July 25 call with Zelensky while saying reports that the president sought to coerce his Ukrainian counterpart, if true, amounted to “clear-cut corruption.”
Trump slammed the allegations as “ridiculous,” and on Saturday accused Biden on Twitter of having demanded, during his time as vice president, “that the Ukrainian Government fire a prosecutor who was investigating his son.”
He also accused news outlets of fabricating “a story about me and a perfectly fine and routine conversation I had with the new President of the Ukraine. Nothing was said that was in any way wrong, but Biden’s demand, on the other hand, was a complete and total disaster.”
Ukrainian Foreign Minister Vadym Prystaiko denied that there was any pressure from Trump in an interview on television station Hromadske.
“I know what they were talking about and I think there was no pressure,” he said.
“It was a long and friendly discussion, and it dealt with many questions that in many cases needed serious answers,” he said.
– ‘Abuse of power’ –
On Saturday, Trump posted a video montage of media reports, which included a clip of Biden saying he’d asked that the prosecutor be dismissed.
Biden has said the call had nothing to do with his son.
“I’ve never spoken to my son about his overseas business dealings,” Biden said. “Everybody looked at it and said there’s nothing there.”
“Trump is doing this because he knows I’ll beat him like a drum and using abuse of power and every element of the presidency to try to do something to smear me,” Biden, who is leading Trump in most polls, said.
Trump also excoriated media outlets whose reporting brought the alleged events to light.
“The Fake News Media nowadays not only doesn’t check for the accuracy of the facts, they knowingly make up the facts. They even make up sources in order to protect their partners, the Democrats,” he posted on Twitter.
Trump is scheduled to travel Wednesday to the Texan border city where 22 died in a weekend gun massacre, and to Dayton, Ohio where a second mass shooting hours later left another nine dead.
The president called on Americans in a nationwide address Monday to condemn bigotry but community leaders say his words rang hollow set against a longstanding refusal to call out white supremacy and a history of provocative tweets widely condemned as racist.
“This president, who helped create the hatred that made Saturday’s tragedy possible, should not come to El Paso,” tweeted Beto O’Rourke, a Democratic presidential hopeful and former congressman who grew up in the city.
“We do not need more division. We need to heal. He has no place here.”
Before striking at a Walmart superstore in El Paso, the 21-year-old suspected gunman, who is white, reportedly posted an online manifesto railing against a “Hispanic invasion of Texas.”
Critics pointed out that the language echoed much of Trump’s rhetoric on Twitter and at rallies, where he has frequently framed Hispanic migrants as part of an “invasion.”
Trump has also characterized Mexicans and Central Americans as criminals, gang members and rapists and described the communities of African American lawmakers on several occasions as “infested” with crime and filth.
– ‘Not welcome’ –
El Paso congresswoman Veronica Escobar, whose district includes the area targeted by the gunman, urged Trump “to consider the fact that his words and his actions have played a role in this.”
“From my perspective, he is not welcome here,” Escobar told MSNBC. “He should not come here while we are in mourning.”
El Paso mayor Dee Margo, in announcing the visit, stressed that he was welcoming the president because it was his duty to do so.
Presidential advisor Kellyanne Conway accused Democrats of politicizing a moment of acute pain while Trump was trying to “bring the country together, heal a nation.”
She was backed by the chairman of the El Paso County Republican Party, Adolpho Telles, who defended Trump’s visit but told CNN he needs to be more careful about his language.
In his nationwide address Monday, Trump spoke out against racism but blamed mental illness and the internet for fueling gun violence, sidestepping the fact that other countries with these issues do not have mass shootings.
He had nothing substantial to say about gun control measures, and El Paso residents were unimpressed by the tightly-scripted appeal for unity.
‘He made us a target’ 
Residents in El Paso told AFP they were fearful of a rise in white nationalism and said Trump was part of the problem.
“I do blame our president. Since the moment he got into office the rhetoric, the hate that he’s got towards people that are just different color skin, he has no right,” said Silvia Rios.
The president began Tuesday apparently irritated by veiled criticism from former president Barack Obama, who warned US leaders against divisive rhetoric.
“We should soundly reject language coming out of the mouths of any of our leaders that feeds a climate of fear and hatred or normalizes racist sentiments,” said Obama, who has only rarely spoken out on public affairs since leaving office in 2017.
In response Trump retweeted a quote from a news anchor on Fox News who said it was inappropriate for a former president to criticize a current one over a shooting.
“President Obama had 32 mass shootings during his reign. Not many people said Obama is out of Control,” read the quote from Brian Kilmeade.
Legislation to overhaul gun control under Obama failed in 2013 when the Republican-controlled Senate rejected a ban of assault-style weapons and expanding background checks.
He told the BBC two years later gun control was “the one area where I feel that I’ve been most frustrated and most stymied.”






“I firmly distance myself from (the attacks) and I feel solidarity towards” the women, she told journalists.
“In my view, the strength of America lies in that people from different (origins) contributed to what makes the country great.”
Trump on Sunday urged a group of four progressive Democratic congresswomen of colour — all American citizens and three of them US-born — to “go back” to their countries of origin.
Despite a domestic uproar over the comments which were deemed “racist” by the House of Representatives, Trump repeatedly renewed his attack.
“If you’re not happy here, you can leave… This is about love for America, certain people hate our country,” he tweeted on Tuesday while repeating the same message to a rally on Wednesday.
International condemnation has rained down over the comments. British Prime Minister Theresa May called them “completely unacceptable”. New Zealand’s leader Jacinda Ardern said she “completely and utterly” disagreed with Trump.
While usually refraining from commenting on other countries’ domestic politics, Merkel on Friday had markedly sharp words about Trump’s latest attacks.
Questions over racism are particularly sensitive in Germany given its Nazi past, and the government routinely speaks out forcefully in favour of tolerance and diversity.
 Marked differences 
Trump and Merkel’s relationship had been strained from the start, with the US leader haranguing the German chancellor even before he took office.
During his election campaign, the US property mogul called Merkel’s decision to take in a million asylum seekers a “catastrophic mistake” and suggested that she was “ruining Germany”.
While Merkel had shared a visibly warm relationship with former US president Barack Obama, her contact with Trump has been formal and firm.
Besides the striking differences in their personalities, the trained German physicist with a deliberative approach and the brash US billionaire known for his Twitter outbursts also have contrasting views and stances on policies.
Setting the tone in her first phone call with Trump after he took office, Merkel offered cooperation, but also reminded him of democratic values.
That unusual warning led some commentators to suggest she had taken on the mantle of the “leader of the free world”, a title usually reserved for US presidents.
Since then, Trump has repeatedly ripped into Germany for failing to pay its “fair share” for transatlantic defence.
He has also lashed out against Germany’s vital export industry which he claims is harming US producers.
The fraught ties and Trump’s decision to withdraw the US from the 2015 Paris climate accord led Merkel to draw the startling conclusion that the US may no longer be a reliable partner for Germany and the European Union.
Europe must step up as a player in world affairs, Merkel said in 2017, signalling that the EU needs to take control of its destiny in the Trump era.
The US president is known for his love of the sport and his simple culinary tastes — he likes his meat well-done. 
In the past he has bonded with Shinzo Abe, the conservative prime minister of South Korea’s neighbour Japan — who Trump has regularly described as his friend — over burgers and several rounds on the course.
The relationship between Trump and Moon — also the leader of a country in a security alliance with the US, but a somewhat reserved former human rights lawyer — is nothing like as close.
But as Trump arrived in Seoul ahead of a trip to the Demilitarized Zone Sunday and a possible third meeting with the North’s Kim Jong Un, the South’s presidential Blue House appeared to have crafted a dinner to appeal to the guest of honour’s particular tastes. 
The main dish was a sirloin steak made of US beef, accompanied by bulgogi sauce, pickled garlic leaves and other side dishes.
And as well as the 12 cold Korean starters on the official menu — among them steamed sea urchin with tofu, and pan-fried mung beans — mini-hamburgers were served, Blue House officials said. 
Serving western-style food along with Korean dishes symbolised the “collaboration and harmony” between the South and the US, Seoul’s presidential office said.  
When Trump last visited in 2017, the Blue House prepared a menu infused with “local, traditional flavour” and featuring a beef rib dish accompanied by a gravy using a 360-year-old soy sauce. 
Then, Seoul also sought to score a diplomatic point by featuring a prawn caught in the waters off Dokdo, disputed islands controlled by the South but claimed by Japan.
In another diplomatic jab, Moon’s office invited a former wartime sex slave for Japanese soldiers to that state dinner, leading Tokyo to call the move “inappropriate”.
This time the guests at the meal — eaten in a traditional-style building in the grounds of the presidential complex in Seoul — included retired star golfer Pak Se-ri, who has five majors to her name.
Trump spoke at length with her, saying at one point: “She’s gonna be my partner.”
South Korea dominates the women’s game globally — and Trump highlighted the success of the country’s players when he spoke to its parliament two years ago.
Sparkling water was provided as Trump does not drink, the Blue House said, and a separate Kosher meal was provided for his daughter and advisor Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner, who are Jewish.
Also among the guests were members of K-pop band EXO — Ivanka’s children are known to be fans — who handed the President and his daughter signed albums.
Trump is known to enjoy fast food. But Kim Hyun-wook, a professor at the Korea National Diplomatic Academy, said that had the meal been a more formal occasion such as a full state banquet, serving burgers as the main dish would be “improper in any diplomatic setting”.






The president, a former real estate maqnate, has been curious about the area's natural resources and geopolitical relevance, the paper reported.
Greenland is a self-governing region of Denmark, which colonised the 772,000 square-mile (two-million square kilometre) island in the 18th century, and is home to only about 57,000 people, most of whom belong to the indigenous Inuit community.
There has been no official comment from the White House, and the Danish embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to AFP's request for comment.
But Greenland's ministry of foreign affairs insisted the island was ready to talk business, not purchase.
"#Greenland is rich invaluable resources such as minerals, the purest water and ice, fish stocks, seafood, renewable energy and is a new frontier for adventure tourism," it tweeted. 
"We're open for business, not for sale," it added.
The office of Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen declined to comment when contacted by AFP. 
But a former premier, Lars Lokke Rasmussen, tweeted: "It must be an April Fool's Day joke... but totally out of season!"
Some Trump advisors say acquiring Greenland, which is northeast of Canada, could be good for the US, while others called it only a "fleeting fascination" from the president, The Wall Street Journal said.
Others outside the White House say Trump's interest could be a desire to secure a legacy achievement, the paper reported, and advisors wondered about the potential for research or greater military clout for the US. 
 World's largest island 
The US's northernmost military base, Thule Air Base, has been located on Greenland for decades. 
But Greenland doesn't quite live up to its lush name -- 85 percent of the island is covered by a 1.9-mile-thick (three-kilometre) ice sheet that contains 10 percent of the world's freshwater.
The world's largest island has suffered from climate change, scientists say, becoming a giant melting icicle that threatens to submerge the world's coastal areas one day.
July saw unprecedented melting of the Greenland ice sheet, with 12 billion tonnes of ice flowing into the sea.
Trump, who in 2017 withdrew the US from the Paris Climate Agreement to cap global warming levels, is reportedly set to visit Copenhagen in September. 
This isn't the first time the president has expressed interest in foreign properties -- he has said North Korea's "great beaches" would make ideal locations for condos.
“Consumers in the US and China are unequivocally the losers from trade tensions,” Gita Gopinath, the International Monetary Fund’s chief economist, said in a blog post.
She and her co-authors directly refuted President Donald Trump’s claim that the tariffs are paid by China and provide a windfall for the US Treasury, saying “tariff revenue collected has been borne almost entirely by US importers.”
The economic damage will be even worse if Trump goes through with the threat to impose steep tariffs on all goods imported from China, as that “will subtract about one-third of a percentage point of global GDP in the short term,” she said.
Optimism was high earlier this month that a deal was within striking distance but tensions erupted after Trump accused Beijing of backtracking on its commitments made over the year of negotiations.
He then more than doubled tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods and threatened to hit the remaining $300 billion in products imported each year with 25 percent tariffs.
Trump says a primary goal of the aggressive tariff strategy is to reduce the trade imbalance with China, which totalled $379 billion last year.
But Gopinath argues that while the tensions have damaged both countries, reducing overall trade and hurting companies, “the bilateral trade deficit remains broadly unchanged.”
And total US imports have not changed significantly since importers simply shifted their purchases to other countries.
“While the impact on global growth is relatively modest at this time, the latest escalation could significantly dent business and financial market sentiment, disrupt global supply chains and jeopardize the projected recovery in global growth in 2019,” she warned in the blog post.
“This type of scenario is among the reasons why we referred to 2019 as a delicate year for the global economy.”
In addition, if tariffs escalate this will make a host of consumer goods less affordable, “harming low income households disproportionately.”
Austin Clay, 25, was identified by police from video surveillance footage.
Having discovered that he was on parole after a conviction for damaging Trump’s star on the famous Hollywood “Walk of Fame,” investigators searched his home Friday.
According to local media reports, they found evidence linking him to the theft of the statue.
The statue itself — showing Monroe in her famous flying skirt pose from “The Seven Year Itch” (1955) — has not been found.
It had been perched atop a small gazebo at the beginning of the “Walk of Fame”, part of a monument dedicated to Hollywood’s most famous actresses.
According to authorities, a witness saw a man climbing the structure on the night of June 16 and using a saw to remove the statue.
Police fear the statue may have been damaged during the theft.
“Looking back at the (security) video, it would be reasonable that the statue broke and could be in multiple pieces,” LAPD detective Douglas Oldfield told NBC4 television.
The suspect was arrested and detained over the weekend.
Clay made headlines in July 2018 when he vandalized Trump’s star on the Hollywood sidewalk with a pickaxe he had hidden in a guitar case.
He was sentenced at the time to one day in prison, three years’ probation and 20 days of community service, and ordered to attend psychological counselling.






The health of the US economy is one of the central themes of Trump’s campaign for reelection to a second four-year term in 2020, hammered at by the president and his aides at every opportunity.
The Post/ABC poll, however, found that Trump’s approval rating has dropped to 38 percent, from a career-high of 44 percent in July.
Although 56 percent of those surveyed judged the state of the economy to be “excellent” or “good,” that is down sharply from a year ago when those favourable ratings stood at 65 percent.
Moreover, six in ten Americans surveyed said a recession was very or somewhat likely next year.
Trump, who regularly complains about unfavourable polls, denounced the latest poll as “the worst and most inaccurate poll of any” since his 2016 election.
“One of the greatest and most powerful weapons used by the Fake and Corrupt News Media is the phony Polling Information they put out. Many of these polls are fixed,” he tweeted.
Trump repeated his frequent assertion that his own campaign’s confidential polling shows a far healthier picture for his reelection. “Internal polling looks great, the best ever!” he tweeted.
According to the Post/ABC findings, voters are deeply opposed to the way he has handled the intensifying trade war with China. Only 35 percent approved, against 56 percent who disapproved.
Another finding that could be cause for worry at the White House: 43 percent of those surveyed said US trade and economic policies have increased the chance of recession next year, compared to 16 percent who thought that to the contrary they have made recession less likely.
Sixty percent said they were worried that the trade war with China would increase the price of consumer products for their families.
The Trump administration has pushed back against those fears in recent weeks.
“I don’t see in any way a recession,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Monday on Fox Business, insisting the trade war has had no impact on the US economy.
The Post/ABC poll was conducted from September 2 to 5, with a representative sample of 1,003 adults.
A day after Mueller’s 400-page report was released publicly, Pompeo said that the Trump administration had raised interference in the 2016 election during each meeting with Russia.
“We will make very clear to them that this is unacceptable behaviour,” Pompeo told a news conference after talks with the Japanese foreign and defense ministers.
“We will take tough actions which raise the cost for Russian malign activities. And we will continue to do that,” he said.
Pompeo said that the United States would also keep pressing to stop Russia from intervening in other elections around the world.
Trump has spoken of a fondness for Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has openly said he favoured the populist mogul to his Democratic rival in the 2016 election, former secretary of state Hillary Clinton.
The Mueller report supported Trump’s repeated assertions that he never colluded with Russian intelligence to sway the election, although it left open the question of whether he obstructed justice.
“These qualities embody the American spirit of pushing boundaries, defying limits and always striving for greatness,” the president said.
Trump congratulated Woods on “your amazing comeback and your amazing life and for giving sports fans a lifetime of memories.
“We can’t wait to see what’s next, Tiger,” said Trump, an avid golfer and owner of several golf courses around the world.
Woods, 43, choked up as he thanked his mother, his two children, his girlfriend and his caddy during the ceremony in the White House Rose Garden.
“You have seen the good and the bad, the highs and the lows,” said Woods, who battled back from injury to win the Masters last month, his first major title since the 2008 US Open.
“My dad is no longer here, but my mom is here,” Woods said. “I love you, Mom.”
“I have tried to hang in there and I have tried to come back and play the great game of golf again,” Woods said. “I have been lucky enough to have had the opportunity to do it again.”
He said his Masters’ victory was “probably the highlight of what I have accomplished so far in my life on the golf course.
“To have had that type of experience and to be able to come out on top and win,” he said.
 ‘Especially meritorious’ 
Established by John F. Kennedy in 1963, the Presidential Medal of Freedom is bestowed upon those who have made an “especially meritorious” contribution to US security or national interests, world peace, cultural pursuits or other non-specified endeavours.
It has been awarded to nearly three dozen sports figures including golf legends Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer, honoured by President George W. Bush.
President Barack Obama gave the medal in 2014 to Charlie Sifford, the first African American golfer to play on the PGA Tour.
During his speech, Woods praised Sifford who he said was “like the grandpa I never had.”
“I ended up becoming so close with him that I ended up naming my son Charlie after him,” he said. “So to have been chosen as the next golfer after Charlie is truly remarkable.”
Woods’ Masters was his 15th major title, leaving him just three short of the record held by Nicklaus.
Woods, a black superstar in a white-dominated sport, has steered clear of commenting on politics during his career.
He has golfed with Democratic presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama and with Republican presidents George H.W. Bush and Trump.
He has hit the links with Trump on several occasions, most recently in February at the president’s course in Jupiter, Florida.
Woods was asked last year about his relationship with Trump, who has been engaged in an ongoing feud with a number of African-American basketball and football stars.
“Well, I’ve known Donald for a number of years,” Woods said. “We’ve played golf together. We’ve had dinner together.
Woods said the important thing was to respect the office of the presidency, regardless of who happened to be occupying the White House.
“No matter who is in the office, you may like, dislike personality or the politics, but we all must respect the office,” Woods said.
“Just confirmed that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi’s number one replacement has been terminated by American troops. Most likely would have taken the top spot – Now he is also Dead!” Trump tweeted.
Trump did not identify the person or give more detail on how he was killed.
A top Kurdish official said Baghdadi’s spokesman and right-hand man, Abu Hassan al-Muhajir, was killed Sunday in a separate raid in the village of Ain Al-Baydah.
Just confirmed that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi’s number one replacement has been terminated by American troops. Most likely would have taken the top spot – Now he is also Dead!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 29, 2019

It was unclear if that was the person Trump was referring to in his tweet.
Mazloum Abdi, commander of the Kurdish-led SDF, had said on Twitter that al-Muhajir was targeted in what he described as a “coordinated operation between SDF intelligence and the US army.”
That raid was carried out a day after US commandos stormed Baghdadi’s hideout in northwestern Syria.
The Islamic State founder detonated a suicide vest, killing himself and three children, as he was being chased into a dead-end tunnel, according to the US account.
A Kurdish official on Monday said the SDF provided crucial intelligence from a source who infiltrated Baghdadi’s house, bringing out underwear that provided positive DNA identification.
“US efforts to boycott the sale of Iran’s oil won’t get them anywhere. We will export our oil as much as we need and we intend,” his official English-language Twitter account said.
The United States on Monday announced it will no longer grant sanctions exemptions to Iran’s oil customers and will start imposing sanctions on countries such as India, China and Turkey if they buy Iranian oil.
In May 2018, President Donald Trump withdrew the US from the 2015 Iran nuclear deal which had given the Islamic republic sanctions relief in exchange for curbs on its nuclear programme.
Washington reimposed oil sanctions on Iran in November but initially gave eight governments six-month reprieves.
Five of the countries — Greece, Italy, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan — have already heavily reduced their purchases from Iran.
“They (the US) wishfully think they have blocked Iran oil sales, but our vigorous nation and vigilant officials, if they work hard, will open many blockades,” Khamenei said on Twitter.
“Enemies have repeatedly, in vain, taken action against our great nation, revolution… but they must know Iranians won’t give in,” he added.
The Michigan representative also accused Attorney General William Barr of “deliberately” misleading the public over the actual content and tenor of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report on Russian interference aimed at tipping the election to Trump.
In a series of tweets, Amash — a member of the ultra-conservative Freedom Caucus — said “few members of Congress even read Mueller’s report,” which identified “multiple examples of conduct satisfying all the elements of obstruction of justice.”
“Undoubtedly any person who is not the president of the United States would be indicted based on such evidence,” he added.
“Contrary to Barr’s portrayal, Mueller’s report reveals that President Trump engaged in specific actions and a pattern of behavior that meet the threshold for impeachment.”
Amash’s comments went even further than those by most Democratic leaders in Congress.
Fellow Michigan lawmaker Rashida Tlaib, a Democrat, urged Amash to co-sponsor her impeachment resolution.
“@justinamash come to find me in 1628 Longworth. I’ve got an impeachment investigation resolution you’re going to want to cosponsor,” she wrote in response to Amash’s thread.
Trump has proclaimed he was fully exonerated by Mueller’s report.
But some Democrats argue that the document lays out multiple occasions in which the president may have obstructed justice, including Senator Elizabeth Warren, a 2020 presidential candidate who has called for impeachment proceedings.
Other senior Democrats including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi have cautioned against such a move, stressing it could deeply divide the nation of about 325 million people.
They warn it could backfire politically in the run-up to the 2020 election, especially with the Republican-controlled Senate likely to acquit the president in the event of impeachment by the House of Representatives.
US President Donald Trump (L) talks with Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau during the plenary session of the NATO summit at the Grove hotel in Watford, northeast of London on December 4, 2019. (Photo by Nicholas Kamm / AFP)
“He’s two-faced,” Trump told reporters on the sidelines of the NATO summit, saying he had called out Trudeau on defence spending “and he’s not very happy about it”.
Trump was speaking before holding talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel after the 29 leaders of NATO countries met in Watford, north of London.
“With Trudeau, he’s a nice guy. I find him to be a nice guy, but the truth is, I called him out on the fact that he’s not paying two percent and I guess he’s not very happy about it,” he said, referring to an alliance commitment to spend two percent of GDP on defence.
Trudeau was picked up by microphones at a Buckingham Palace reception for NATO leaders on Tuesday evening apparently laughing about an impromptu press conference Trump did earlier.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson can be heard asking France’s President Emmanuel Macron: “Is that why you were late?”
Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau interjects: “He was late because he takes a 40-minute press conference off the top.”
In the video, Macron appears to tell an anecdote about the encounter as Britain’s Princess Anne and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte look on, but the French leader has his back to the camera and he is inaudible amid the hubbub.
“Oh, yeah, yeah, he announced…” an amused Trudeau declares, adding: “You just watched his team’s jaw drop to the floor.”
During a visit to Oslo, Moon said it was “desirable that Chairman Kim and President Trump meet in the near future”.
“If the period of no dialogue is prolonged, then the passion for dialogue could subside,” he said, on the one-year anniversary of the pair’s historic meeting in Singapore.
A second summit in Hanoi in February was broadly viewed as a failure.
“Because the second US-North Korean summit in Hanoi did not yield a concrete agreement and then we have not been able to see any momentum for a third US-North Korea summit… we could say that on the surface we have reached some kind of an impasse,” Moon said.
However, “even though we are not engaged in official dialogue, we have been exchanging personal letters and in those personal letters we have been expressing mutual trust as well as unwavering commitment for further dialogue,” he said.
On Tuesday, Trump said he had received a “beautiful letter” from Kim Jong Un.
Moon said he would like to meet with the North Korean leader before Trump’s visit to South Korea scheduled for the end of June.
“However the exact timing for a meeting is up to Chairman Kim,” Moon said.
As Trump lashed out at Democratic congressman Adam Schiff, suggesting he should be arrested for “treason,” a new poll showed a growing number of Americans support removing the president from office for abuse of power.
Trump also attacked the whistleblower whose complaint about his phone call with the leader of Ukraine led to the opening of the impeachment probe in the Democratic-led House of Representatives last week.
“We are trying to find out about a whistleblower, when you have a whistleblower that reports things that were incorrect,” the president told reporters in the Oval Office.
The whistleblower, reportedly a CIA officer, raised concerns in a report to his or her superiors about the July 25 phone call during which Trump asked Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate his potential 2020 White House opponent Joe Biden and his son, Hunter, who served on the board of a Ukrainian gas company.
Giuliani was at the center of the effort to get Ukraine to conduct an investigation of the Bidens, who have not been officially accused of any wrongdoing.
Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, and the chairmen of two other Democratic-led committees issued a subpoena to Giuliani asking him to turn over Ukraine-related documents by October 15.
“The Committees are investigating the extent to which President Trump jeopardized national security by pressing Ukraine to interfere with our 2020 election,” the chairmen said in a letter to Giuliani.
“Our inquiry includes an investigation of credible allegations that you acted as an agent of the President in a scheme to advance his personal political interests by abusing the power of the Office of the President.”
Trump insisted to reporters on Monday that the phone call with Zelensky was “perfect” and claimed that the “whistleblower reported a totally different statement.”
“When the whistleblower reported this, he made it sound terrible,” he said.
In fact, the rough transcript of the Trump-Zelensky call released by the White House matched the account in the whistleblower complaint.
‘Civil war’ 
Trump lashed out at Schiff for his depiction of the call during a congressional hearing last week.
Schiff opened the hearing with a parody imitation of Trump speaking like a mob boss to pressure Zelensky to investigate the Bidens.
“It bore NO relationship to what I said on the call,” Trump said of Schiff’s remarks. “Arrest for Treason?”
Trump also raised eyebrows by retweeting comments made by a Baptist pastor, Robert Jeffress, to Fox News in which he warned of the dangers of “civil war” if the president was impeached.
“If the Democrats are successful in removing the President from office (which they will never be), it will cause a Civil War like fracture in this Nation from which our Country will never heal,” Trump paraphrased Jeffress as saying.
That tweet by the president drew condemnation from at least one Republican lawmaker, Representative Adam Kinzinger of Illinois.
“I have visited nations ravaged by civil war,” Kinzinger tweeted. “@realDonaldTrump I have never imagined such a quote to be repeated by a President. This is beyond repugnant.”
A new poll meanwhile found that a growing number of Americans support impeachment of the 73-year-old real estate tycoon.
American voters were split 47-47 on impeaching and removing Trump, according to the Quinnipiac University survey, a significant shift from less than a week ago when 37 percent said he should be removed and 57 percent said he should not.
The Quinnipiac poll of 1,115 registered voters was conducted September 27-29 and has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.6 percentage points.
If Trump is impeached by a simple majority vote in the 435-member House, he would face a trial in the Republican-led Senate, where a two-thirds majority would be needed to convict him and remove him from office.
‘Risk your careers’ 
Few Republican lawmakers have been critical of Trump since the Ukraine scandal emerged last week, but former Republican senator Jeff Flake of Arizona urged them on Monday to speak up.
“My fellow Republicans, it is time to risk your careers in favor of your principles,” Flake said in a column in The Washington Post. “Whether you believe the president deserves impeachment, you know he does not deserve reelection.
“For those who want to put America first, it is critically important at this moment in the life of our country that we all, here and now, do just that,” Flake said.
“Trust me when I say that you can go elsewhere for a job. But you cannot go elsewhere for a soul.”






US President Donald Trump speaks at the Values Voter Summit at the Omni Shoreham Hotel on October 12, 2019 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Eric BARADAT / AFP)
In the internet meme — taken from a scene in the movie “Kingsman: The Secret Service” — the US president’s head is superimposed on a man opening fire at people whose faces have been replaced with the logos of outlets including CNN, the Washington Post and NBC TV.
As the rampage continues inside the “Church of Fake News”, the Trump character strikes late senator John McCain on the back of the neck and torches the head of Senator Bernie Sanders, a Democratic presidential rival.
He throws Republican senator Mitt Romney to the ground and strikes former president Barack Obama in the back and slams him against a wall.
The organizer of last week’s “American Priority” event — which was held at Trump’s resort in Miami — said the clip was part of a “meme exhibit.”
“American Priority rejects all political violence and aims to promote a healthy dialogue about the preservation of free speech,” Alex Phillips told the Times.
CNN wrote on Twitter: “This is not the first time that supporters of the President have promoted violence against the media in a video they apparently find entertaining, but it is by far and away the worst.”
Trump, the White House and his campaign must denounce the clip, the channel said, adding that “anything less equates to a tacit endorsement of violence.”
The White House Correspondents’ Association also called on Trump to denounce the meme.
Tim Murtaugh, a spokesman for Trump’s 2020 election campaign, told the Times the “video was not produced by the campaign, and we do not condone violence.”
Media organizations have come under regular verbal attack from Trump and his supporters.
At rallies, the US president repeatedly encourages the crowd to boo and heckle journalists covering the event, calling them “fake news” and “enemy of the people.”
Trump has previously tweeted a roughly edited video clip of him attacking a wrestler whose head had been superimposed with a CNN logo.
The project — named Artemis — would be the first attempt to return humans to the lunar surface since the last Apollo landing in 1972, but some experts doubt if the deadline is realistic given budgetary constraints and delays in developing the next-generation rockets and equipment needed for the journey.
To meet this “bold challenge”, NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine said in an email to employees that Bill Gerstenmaier, head of the agency’s Human Exploration and Operations (HEO) missions directorate, has been removed from his position and assigned an advisory role, the Washington Post and other US news outlets.
The widely-respected Gerstenmaier is a NASA veteran who joined the agency in 1977, rising to become one of its top managers, overseeing the space shuttle program and US operations on the International Space Station before becoming head of HEO.
“We, as a nation, are thankful for his service in advancing America’s priorities and expanding the limits of science, technology and exploration,” Bridenstine wrote of Gerstenmaier in his email, according to CBS News.
Former astronaut Ken Bowersox will be the acting head of the section, according to Bridenstine’s email.
The American plan to return humans to the moon — including the first woman — is beset with delays and cost overruns, according to an official audit released last month.
The cost of Boeing’s giant Space Launch System (SLS) rocket — at the core of the Artemis project — has risen by nearly 30 percent to $8 billion, and its already-delayed first flight is unlikely to take place by June 2020 as planned.
Costs for the Orion capsule being built by Lockheed Martin to transport astronauts have also grown.
But Vice President Mike Pence, who announced the accelerated 2024 target in March, has criticized NASA for “bureaucratic inertia” and asked for a new mindset.
Critics have said such tight deadlines may lead to serious risk-taking to save time, including reducing the amount of testing done on rockets.
Bridenstine has described the 2024 deadline as “aggressive” but doable.
Tillerson, who was fired by Trump last March, delivered his assessment of Trump’s approach to the talks in Hamburg in 2017, in remarks to a Congress committee Tuesday reported by the Washington Post.
“We spent a lot of time in the conversation talking about how Putin seized every opportunity to push what he wanted,” a committee aide told the newspaper.
“There was a discrepancy in preparation, and it created an unequal footing.”
Trump met with Putin on the sidelines of the G20 summit in July 2017 under a cloud of rebuke for his reluctance to criticize the Russian leader directly over Moscow’s meddling in US elections the previous year.
He later said he got along with Putin “very, very well” at the meeting.
Tillerson attended the Hamburg talks, which were intended to be a brief meeting but span out into a two-hour discussion on a variety of global issues, anonymous committee aids told the Washington Post.
The following year Trump met again with Putin for their first formal summit in Helsinki, dismissing top aides for two hours of talks, in a sharp break with standard diplomatic practice.
The businessman-turned-politician has previously expressed skepticism about the importance of preparation for high-stakes diplomacy, describing “attitude” as more useful than research.
Ahead of his first meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore last year, Trump said with characteristic bravado: “I don’t think I have to prepare very much… It’s about attitude, it’s about willingness to get things done.”
Trump dismissed Tillerson’s remarks, claiming he was “perfectly prepared” for meetings with Putin.
“We did very well at those meetings,” he said, according to the newspaper.
Tillerson has previously described Trump as an “undisciplined” figure who repeatedly wanted to break the law — leading the US president to respond that his onetime cabinet member was “dumb as a rock” and lazy as hell.”
The Department of Homeland Security said it was terminating the 1997 Flores Settlement Agreement, a binding legal ruling that said the government could not hold migrant children in detention for more than 20 days.
A new policy, to be implemented in 60 days, will not limit how long children or their families can be detained.
The move is aimed at deterring migrant expectations that they will be released after being arrested by the US border authorities and able to disappear into the US population.
“To protect these children from abuse, and stop this illegal flow, we must close these loopholes. This is an urgent humanitarian necessity,” Trump said in a statement.
Kevin McAleenan, the acting DHS secretary, cited the challenge of “an unprecedented flow of family units” crossing the southern US border this year, most of them from Central America.
The Flores Settlement “has generally forced the government to release families into the country after just 20 days, incentivizing illegal entry,” he said.
“Human smugglers advertise, and intending migrants know well, that even if they cross the border illegally, arriving at our border with a child has meant that they will be released into the United States to wait for court proceedings that could take five years or more.”
‘Frankly ridiculous’
Trump told reporters at the White House he was also considering ending birthright citizenship, repeating a previous administration pledge to end the policy of automatically designating babies born in the United States as American nationals.
“We’re looking at that very seriously, birthright citizenship. Where you have a baby on our land — you walk over the border, have a baby. Congratulations, the baby is now a US citizen,” Trump said.
He dismissed the process — guaranteed under the 14th Amendment to the US Constitution — as “frankly ridiculous.”
The Flores rule was the result of a lawsuit citing chronic abuse of migrants in detention.
It required they receive adequate, humane care and that migrant children be released within 20 days and placed in the custody of their parents or relatives.
Faced with tens of thousands of mostly Central American migrant families and unaccompanied children crossing the border every month, Trump’s administration has been accused of violating Flores conditions and also separating children from their parents who remained held in order to meet the 20-day requirement.
McAleenan said that in the 10 months to July, some 475,000 people in family units crossed the border illegally from Mexico, aiming to stay in the United States.
DHS said new rules would guarantee that Flores standards of detention would be upheld but allow authorities “to maintain family unity.”
New regulations to be announced would be “a pathway to ensure the humane detention of families while satisfying the goals” of the Flores Settlement, DHS said.
Migrant and human rights groups said they would challenge the abrogation of Flores and accused the government of mistreating migrants.
“This is yet another cruel attack on children, who the Trump administration has targeted again and again with its anti-immigrant policies,” said American Civil Liberties Union official Madhuri Grewal.
“The government should not be jailing kids and certainly shouldn’t be seeking to put more kids in jail for longer,” she said.






“They want to talk and we’ll be talking to them,” Trump told reporters at the White House in his first public reaction to North Korea’s claim to have entered a “new phase” with the test of a submarine-launched missile.
“We’ll see,” Trump added, when asked if the test had gone too far for him. The launch was by far the most significant since Pyongyang first began a dialogue with Washington in 2018 over pressure to give up its nuclear weapons. 
Analysts said the new capability, if confirmed, marks a significant step in boosting that program.
“We assess that it was a short- to medium-range ballistic missile. And I would say that we have no indication that it was launched from a submarine but rather a sea-based platform,” a US military spokesman, Colonel Pat Ryder, told reporters.
Trump has said he sees no problem with a string of short range rocket tests conducted previously by North Korea, while insisting his personal ties with the North’s leader Kim Jong Un remain good.
But a proven submarine-based missile capability would take the North’s arsenal to a new level, allowing deployment far beyond the Korean peninsula and a second-strike capability in the event of an attack on its military bases.
The launch came with working-level talks between Pyongyang and Washington slated to resume later this week.
A team of North Korean negotiators flew into Stockholm Thursday ahead of the talks.
 Fired from underwater 
The United Nations Security Council is expected to hold closed-door talks early next week on the latest test, diplomats said.
The talks were requested by Britain, France and Germany, as the European powers push for the world body to keep up pressure on Pyongyang which is under heavy US and UN sanctions over its weapons program.
North Korea is banned from ballistic missile launches by Security Council resolutions.
Photos carried by Pyongyang’s official Rodong Sinmun newspaper showed a black and white missile emerging from the water and appearing to shoot into the sky.
The images also showed a small towing vessel next to the missile, which analysts said indicates the test was conducted from a submersible barge rather than an actual submarine, and that the system was in its early stages.
“The new-type ballistic missile was fired in vertical mode” in the waters off Wonsan Bay, the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) reported, identifying the weapon as a Pukguksong-3 and saying it “ushered in a new phase in containing the outside forces’ threat.”
Ankit Panda of the Federation of American Scientists called it Pyongyang’s longest-range-capable solid-fuel missile. Wednesday’s launch was “unambiguously the first nuclear-capable missile test since November 2017,” Panda said.
The North carried out a successful test of the solid-fuel Pukguksong-1, also known as KN-11, in August 2016, which flew around 300 miles (482 kilometers).
In July, North Korean state media had published pictures of Kim inspecting a new type of submarine that also showed a poster of the Pukguksong-3 on a wall, fueling concerns Pyongyang was pushing ahead with an SLBM program.
Tokyo said a part of Wednesday’s missile landed in waters within Japan’s exclusive economic zone — a 125-mile band around Japanese territory.
US Secretary of Defense Mark Esper spoke to his Japanese counterpart to discuss the launch, Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman told a press briefing.
“They both agreed that the North Korea tests are unnecessarily provocative and do not set the stage for diplomacy and that North Korea should cease these tests,” Hoffman said.
– Kim absent –
North Korea frequently couples diplomatic overtures with military moves as a way of maintaining pressure on negotiating partners, analysts say, and may believe this weapons system gives it added leverage.
Pyongyang tested what it called a “super-large” rocket launcher last month just hours after the North said it was willing to resume working-level talks with Washington.
Kim Dong-yub, a researcher at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies in Seoul, noted Kim’s absence at Wednesday’s launch — a rarity as the North Korean leader has been present at all recent weapons tests.
“It’s likely not unrelated to the talks between Pyongyang and Washington currently under way,” he said, adding that Kim was trying to carry out weapons modernization without jeopardizing dialogue with the US.
Negotiations have been deadlocked since a second summit between Kim and Trump in February ended without a deal.
The two agreed to restart dialogue during an impromptu meeting at the Demilitarized Zone dividing the two Koreas in June, but those talks have yet to materialize.






(FILES) In this file photo taken on June 08, 2017 former FBI director James Comey is sworn in during a hearing before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC. – US production company CBS Studios said on Monday it is to make a miniseries based on the memoir of former FBI director James Comey, who was fired by President Donald Trump as the Russia election interference scandal erupted in 2017.<br />Jeff Daniels (“Dumb and Dumber,” “The Newsroom”) takes on the role of Comey while Brendan Gleeson, who played Alastor “Mad Eye” Moody in the “Harry Potter” movies, is to play Trump, CBS said on Twitter. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Jeff Daniels (“Dumb and Dumber,” “The Newsroom”) takes on the role of Comey while Brendan Gleeson, who played Alastor “Mad-Eye” Moody in the “Harry Potter” movies, is to play Trump, CBS said on Twitter.
CBS has yet to announce a release date for the show, based on Comey’s “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” but a source close to the studio said it would air on online platform CBS All Access or the cable channel Showtime.
Irishman Gleeson, 64, has appeared in almost 90 movies over three decades, picking up Golden Globe nominations for “In Bruges” (2008) and “The Guard” (2011), directed respectively by filmmaking brothers Martin and John Michel McDonagh. 
He won an Emmy and was also Globe-nominated for his turn as Winston Churchill in the 2009 TV film “Into the Storm.” 
US actor Daniels, a four-time Globe nominee best known for film acting, is currently appearing on Broadway in “To Kill A Mockingbird” and has two Emmys. 
Comey’s 2018 memoir, which sold more than a million copies in the US, portrays Trump as a dishonest narcissist, comparing his leadership style to that of a Mafia boss.
Trump fired Comey without warning on May 9, 2017, as the FBI chief’s agents were looking into allegations of collusion between Trump’s election campaign team and Russia. 
Comey’s dismissal was officially attributed to his handling of an investigation into the use of a private email server by Trump’s election rival Hillary Clinton when she was secretary of state.
Two days after dismissing the law enforcement officer, however, Trump told NBC that the FBI’s Russia investigation was on his mind during the firing.
The Mueller Report into Russian election interference would eventually describe across 200 pages “numerous links between the Russian government and the Trump campaign.”






“As most people know, and for those who would like to know, I am strongly Pro-Life, with the three exceptions — Rape, Incest and protecting the Life of the mother — the same position taken by Ronald Reagan,” Trump tweeted late Saturday.
Trump, who is seeking to expand on his conservative support ahead of his re-election bid, added: “The Radical Left, with late-term abortion (and worse), is imploding on this issue.
“We must stick together and Win for Life in 2020.”
Alabama’s governor on Wednesday signed a near-total prohibition on abortions widely seen as the country’s most restrictive ban, and the Missouri legislature on Friday made the procedure illegal from eight weeks of pregnancy.
Neither make exceptions for rape or incest — only for cases where the mother’s life is in danger.
Republican-led legislatures in Georgia, Ohio, Mississippi, Kentucky, Iowa and North Dakota have also enacted laws banning abortion from the moment a fetal heartbeat is detected.
Supporters hope that legal battles over the laws will reach the Supreme Court, as they pursue the long-sought conservative goal of overturning its landmark 1973 abortion ruling, known as Roe v Wade.
Roe v Wade guarantees women’s rights to abortion as long as the fetus is not viable — around 24 weeks of pregnancy.
Trump, a bombastic, twice-divorced billionaire, won over the evangelical vote during his 2016 campaign by promising to appoint anti-abortion justices at the Supreme Court.
He has since brought two conservative appointees to the highest court in the land — Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh — shifting the balance of the nine-person bench.
In a series of tweets on the deeply polarizing issue, Trump said the US had “come very far in the last two years” on abortion, and praised “two great new Supreme Court Justices”.
On Sunday, defenders of women’s reproductive rights are set to march in protest against Alabama’s new abortion law in four of the Southern state’s cities, including the capital Montgomery.
“People should have the right to make the decisions that are best for their bodies without state interference,” organizers said on Facebook.
“Big election tomorrow in Israel,” Trump told reporters at the White House. “It’s going to be close… it’s a 50/50 election.”
Israel is holding its second election in five months on Tuesday, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu battling for his political survival.
Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving prime minister, suffered one of the biggest defeats of his career after April elections when he failed to form a coalition despite his right-wing Likud and its allies winning a majority of seats.
Rather than risk having Israeli President Reuven Rivlin choose someone else to form a government, Netanyahu, who could be indicted on corruption charges in the coming weeks, opted for a second election instead.
Final opinion polls released Friday indicated another tight race between Likud and the centrist Blue and White alliance led by ex-military chief Benny Gantz, and a repeat stalemate cannot be ruled out.
The poll is expected to once again amount largely to a referendum on Netanyahu.






Trump’s announcement on Twitter reversed a previous White House assurance that the idea — criticized as political retribution against cities led by opposition Democrats — had been dropped.
“Due to the fact that Democrats are unwilling to change our very dangerous immigration laws, we are indeed, as reported, giving strong considerations to placing Illegal Immigrants in Sanctuary Cities,” Trump said.
“The Radical Left always seems to have an Open Borders, Open Arms policy –- so this should make them very happy!” he tweeted.
The Washington Post revealed the proposal, which would mark a new flashpoint in the ever-growing political divide over immigration.
Trump has staked his presidency on his insistence that the United States is being overrun by migrants and asylum seekers. 
But opponents, mostly in the Democratic Party, say his push for building more walls on the Mexican border and his almost daily denunciations of migrants as dangerous criminals incite racial hatred.
In comments to reporters later, Trump said that he wanted Congress, where the House of Representatives is controlled by Democrats, to tighten visas and streamline the deportation process.
Otherwise, he warned, he’ll order migrants to be dumped on the sanctuary cities.
“If they don’t agree we might as well do what they say they want…. We’ll bring them to sanctuary city areas and let that particular area take care of it,” he said. “We can give them an unlimited supply.”
And late Friday, he reiterated his call for a “merit” based immigration system. 
“If the Radical Left Democrats all of a sudden don’t want the Illegal Migrants in their Sanctuary Cities (no more open arms), why should others be expected to take them into their communities?” he tweeted.
 Human ‘pawns’ 
Sanctuary cities are places where local authorities — usually Democratic-run — have refused to hand over undocumented immigrants for deportation.
San Francisco Mayor London Breed dismissed Trump’s proposal.
“This is just another in a long line of scare tactics and half-baked ideas that are just about chasing headlines and distracting people from real issues,” she tweeted.
Citing homeland security officials and leaked emails, the Post said White House officials first broached the plan in November, asking several agencies whether members of a caravan of migrants could be arrested at the border and then bussed “to small- and mid-sized sanctuary cities”.
The White House told the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE) that the plan was intended to alleviate a shortage of detention space, but would also send a message to Democrats, the Post said. 
The suggested policy was pushed back within ICE, with a top official saying it was rife with concerns and noting “there are PR risks as well”.
After the White House pressed the issue again earlier this year, ICE rebuffed it as “inappropriate.”
The Post said a White House official and a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security said the proposal was no longer under consideration.
“This was just a suggestion that was floated and rejected, which ended any further discussion,” a White House statement said.
One of the centers targeted was the California constituency of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, whose office on Thursday blasted the plan.
“Using human beings — including little children — as pawns in their warped game to perpetuate fear and demonize immigrants is despicable,” said Pelosi spokeswoman Ashley Etienne.
 Record high detentions 
Trump’s all-out fight with the Democrats over immigration comes as border agents report being overwhelmed by the number of migrants and people demanding asylum after fleeing violent Central American countries.
The number of immigrant detainees in ICE custody has approached 50,000 in recent months, the Post said, an all-time high that has strained the agency’s budget.
Another of Trump’s controversial proposals to resolve the situation has been to shut the border with Mexico temporarily. He backed off the idea after outcry over the likely damaging economic effects.
In a new twist, The New York Times reported Friday that the president last week told Kevin McAleenan, the soon to be named acting secretary of homeland security, that he still wanted the border closed.
According to the Times, Trump told McAleenan that if he had any legal difficulties as a result of this, he would give him a presidential pardon.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky listens during a meeting with US President Donald Trump in New York on September 25, 2019, on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)
Trump is accused of pressuring Zelensky to investigate his potential 2020 election rival Joe Biden in return for $400 million in military aid, a scandal that has prompted an impeachment probe into the American president.
The messages, released by House Democrats, show former US special envoy to Ukraine Kurt Volker writing to top Zelensky aide Andrey Yermak, promising the new Ukrainian leader a trip to Washington in exchange for the investigation.
“Heard from White House — assuming President Z convinces trump he will investigate / ‘get to the bottom of what happened’ in 2016, we will nail down a date for visit to Washington. Good luck!” Volker wrote in the July 25 message.
Trump has been accused of pressuring Zelensky to open a corruption investigation against Biden in a phone call later that same day by making military aid to Ukraine contingent on that favour.
Days before the two leaders spoke, Volker wrote in a text message to Gordon Sondland, the US ambassador to the European Union, that it was most important for “Zelensky to say that he will help (the) investigation.”
The release of the text messages came the same day Volker spoke for more than eight hours to House lawyers, in an interview centered on his role in alleged efforts by Trump and his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani to solicit foreign interference in the next US election.
A whistleblower, so far only identified as a US intelligence officer, went to the authorities with concerns about the phone call between Trump and Zelensky, triggering the impeachment inquiry.
“Engaging in these stunning abuses in broad daylight does not absolve President Trump of his wrongdoings — or his grave offences against the Constitution,” said the chairs of three House committees, who received Volker’s testimony, in a joint statement.
On Thursday, Trump publicly called for both China and Ukraine to open investigations into Biden and his son, Hunter Biden.
The four -- Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts -- struck back at a news conference Monday and urged people not to "take the bait."
Trump was simply trying to distract with his "blatantly racist attack" on the four women of colour, Omar said.
"This is the agenda of white nationalists," she said.
Pressley also urged the American people "to not take the bait."
"This is simply a disruption and a distraction from the callous chaotic and corrupt culture of this administration, all the way down," Pressley said.
The four lawmakers -- who have been nicknamed "The Squad" by some media -- said attention should instead be focused on healthcare and immigration and, in particular, the treatment of asylum seekers on the southern border.
"Weak minds and leaders challenge loyalty to our country in order to avoid challenging and debating the policy," said Ocasio-Cortez.
Trump "does not know how to defend his policies, so what he does is attack us personally, and that is what this is all about," she said.
Tlaib said Trump's tweets and remarks were "a continuation of his racist and xenophobic playbook."
"We cannot allow these hateful actions by the president to distract us from the critical work to hold this administration accountable to the inhumane conditions at the border that is separating children from their loved ones and caging them up in illegal, horrific conditions," she said.
Omar and Tlaib repeated calls for Trump to be impeached.
 Trump doubles down 
The president also came under fire from some members of his Republican party but remained unrepentant.
"All they do is complain," Trump told reporters at a White House event featuring products made in America.
"These are people that hate our country," he said of the four lawmakers.
"If you're not happy here, you can leave."
Trump also accused the four first-term congresswomen -- who are of Hispanic, Arab, Somali and African American origin -- of having "love" for US "enemies like Al-Qaeda."
Asked by a reporter whether he was concerned that many people saw his comments as racist, Trump said: "It doesn't concern me because many people agree with me."
 'Destructive' 
Trump's extraordinary attacks on the lawmakers prompted critical reactions from foreign leaders and outrage from Democrats.
Republicans were initially silent, but on Monday several of his party faithful began to speak up.
"My view is that what was said and what was tweeted was destructive, was demeaning, was disunifying, and frankly it was very wrong," said Senator Mitt Romney, a Republican from Utah.
"There is no excuse for the president's spiteful comments -- they were absolutely unacceptable and this needs to stop," said Senator Lisa Murkowski, a Republican from Alaska. "We must demand a higher standard of decorum and decency."
Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine said she disagreed with the policies espoused by the "far-left" Democratic lawmakers, but that Trump was "way over the line."
Texan Will Hurd, the only black Republican in the House of Representatives, told CNN that Trump's behavior was "unbecoming of the leader of the free world."
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern became the latest international leader to condemn Trump's tweets.
"I completely and utterly disagree with him," she told Radio New Zealand, noting that her country welcomed diversity in the corridors of power.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Britain's Theresa May also expressed disapproval.
 'Cold, hard strategy' 
Trump's comments appear to be aimed at galvanizing his mostly white electoral base ahead of the 2020 presidential vote -- while also stoking racial tensions and divisions among his political opponents.
"With his deliberate, racist outburst, @realDonaldTrump wants to raise the profile of his targets, drive Dems to defend them and make them emblematic of the entire party," said David Axelrod, who served as chief strategist for Barack Obama's two White House campaigns.
In his initial Twitter attack on Sunday, Trump -- who before becoming president pushed the racist "birther" conspiracy theory that Obama was not born on US soil -- said the congresswomen came from corrupt, poorly managed countries to which they should return.
Ocasio-Cortez, Tlaib and Pressley were all born in the United States while Omar arrived as a refugee from war-torn Somalia, which she fled as a child.
Former vice president Joe Biden, who is seeking the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, denounced Trump as the most "openly racist and divisive" president in US history.
"Go home to your country? It's sickening, it's embarrassing," Biden said.
(FILES) In this file photo taken on November 15, 2019 US President Donald Trump speaks during a “Keep America Great” rally at the CenturyLink Center in Bossier City, Louisiana. – President Donald Trump on November 18, 2019 said he is “strongly” considering answering a challenge from opposition Democrats to testify in his own impeachment investigation. After the speaker of the lower house, Nancy Pelosi, upped the ante by suggesting that Trump come forward to tell the “truth,” the Republican president said he was keen. Pelosi suggested “that I testify about the phony Impeachment Witch Hunt. She also said I could do it in writing,” Trump tweeted. (Photo by MANDEL NGAN / AFP)
After the speaker of the lower house, Nancy Pelosi, upped the ante by suggesting that Trump come forward to tell the “truth,” the Republican president said he was keen.
Pelosi suggested “that I testify about the phony Impeachment Witch Hunt. She also said I could do it in writing,” Trump tweeted.
“Even though I did nothing wrong, and don’t like giving credibility to this No Due Process Hoax, I like the idea & will, in order to get Congress focused again, strongly consider it!”
It was unclear what kind of testimony the president had in mind.
His defence team would likely be highly resistant to the idea of him appearing before the House Intelligence Committee delving into the allegation that Trump pressured Ukraine to dig up dirt on a political rival to help his 2020 reelection chances.
During the lengthy probe led by special prosecutor Robert Mueller into accusations that Trump worked with Russians to boost his 2016 election chances, the president refused a face-to-face meeting and instead answered questions in written form.
Even so, his lawyers negotiated strict limits on what kind of questions could be put. In dozens of instances, Trump then said he could not “recall” the facts.
The Mueller report ultimately found that Russian agents sought to influence the US election but that there was no evidence of collusion with the Trump campaign.
 Trump’s frustration 
Any testimony by Trump would potentially be risky and his tweet could be nothing more than a tactical move in the tussle with Pelosi’s Democrats.
Trump has become increasingly angry and frustrated over the impeachment process, which he insists is a “witch hunt.” Democrats say they are steadily revealing corruption and abuse of office at the heart of the real estate magnate’s presidency.
This week will see another stream of witnesses come before the Intelligence Committee, where they face questions from Democrats and Republicans.
Although the action is happening at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House, Trump watches closely — so closely that on Friday he tweeted an attack on one witness as she testified.
Former Ukraine ambassador Marie Yovanovitch was telling lawmakers how she had been forced out of her post in oddly abrupt circumstances around the time of the alleged Trump scheme in the ex-Soviet republic.
In mid-testimony, Trump tweeted that “everywhere Marie Yovanovitch went turned bad.”
This caused widespread consternation in the hearing room and Yovanovitch called the president’s intervention “very intimidating.”
Trump and his supporters have argued that the allegations against him so far are not supported by first-hand witnesses. That will change, however, on Wednesday when the US ambassador to the European Union, Gordon Sondland, takes questions.
Sondland was in direct contact with Trump during the time when he was meeting with Ukrainian officials, allegedly as a key player in efforts by a small group of Trump confidants to push for the dirt on Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden.
The House, where Democrats hold a majority, is expected to impeach Trump, although Republicans will likely vote solidly against. A trial would then be scheduled in the Senate where the Republican majority is expected to toss out the case.
However, Trump, in this case, would still be only the third president ever impeached and the fight is likely to have unpredictable fallout in the 2020 election.
“To Tim: The Button on the iPhone was FAR better than the Swipe!” he tweeted Friday.
Trump switched from an Android mobile to an iPhone in March 2017, the same year Apple dropped the physical home button from its top models.
This earlier shift seemed to be the target of presidential ire, rather Apple’s latest iPhone 11 release in September.
It is not the first time Trump has cast a critical eye over the tech giant’s design choices.
“I cannot believe that Apple didn’t come out with a larger screen iPhone. Samsung is stealing their business. STEVE JOBS IS SPINNING IN GRAVE,” he tweeted in September 2013.
It also comes after a gaffe in March when he referred to Cook as “Tim Apple”.
Trump later claimed the naming was deliberate and a “time saving” measure.
"I did not speak with US President Trump in those terms: you give me this, I give you that," Volodymyr Zelensky said in an interview with European publications including Germany's Der Spiegel magazine.
In remarks published in German, Zelensky said he "did not understand at all" the accusations heard at the hearings and did not "want to give an impression that we are beggars" in Ukraine.
The scandal centres around a phone conversation on July 25 in which the Republican leader is suspected of putting pressure on Ukraine to launch investigations against former Democratic vice president Joe Biden and his son Hunter, who worked for a Ukrainian gas company. 
The key issue is whether Trump set up a "quid pro quo" -- Latin for seeking one action in exchange for another -- with Zelensky by holding back promised US military aid for Ukraine until the Bidens were investigated.
In the interview published on Monday, Zelensky also played down expectations ahead of a summit on December 9 in Paris in which he is set to meet his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin for the first time.
He said that an end to the conflict with Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine could not be discussed until three preliminary steps had been taken.
He said there should first be a prisoner exchange within a "reasonable time period", followed by a genuine ceasefire and the retreat of all armed forces to allow local elections to be held in the region.
"If these three issues are resolved, then we can see if everyone wants to put an end to the conflict."
The conflict in Ukraine, which broke out in 2014 after pro-Western politicians took power in Kiev and Russia annexed Crimea, has killed more than 13,000 people.
Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard underwent a grilling in Mexico’s Congress, where some lawmakers insisted otherwise and demanded more details on what exactly he agreed to in the last-minute deal brokered a week ago to dodge Trump’s threat to impose tariffs on Mexican goods.
Angry over a surge of Central Americans seeking US asylum, Trump is pushing Mexico to agree to a deal in which migrants entering Mexican territory would have to apply for refugee status there, not in the United States.
The language in the “supplementary agreement” released by Mexico appears to resemble that. However Mexico’s foreign ministry insisted the document — signed by a deputy legal advisor to the ministry and his State Department counterpart — was “not a binding bilateral agreement.”
Rather, it says the two sides agree to immediately open talks to arrive at just that — a “binding bilateral agreement” — in which Mexico “would accept the return, and process refugee status claims, of third-party nationals” who cross its territory to reach the United States.
If in 45 days Washington decides that Mexico City’s efforts to curb migration are not enough, then the Mexican government “will take all necessary steps under domestic law” to bring that agreement into force in another 45 days, the text concludes.
Trump had waved the one-page document in front of reporters Tuesday to fend off critics who said he had in fact extracted little in the way of new commitments from Mexico with his tariff threats.
Photojournalists managed to capture a few sentences that day, but the full contents had not previously been revealed.
They will now almost certainly add fuel to the raging debate over who got the best of whom in the Mexican tariff row.
Trump happy, for now 
Mexico’s leftist President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador has celebrated the reprieve from Trump’s tariffs as a diplomatic victory, and his government is racing to show that it is taking decisive action during the 45-day grace period.
Under the countries’ main deal, Mexico agreed to deploy 6,000 National Guardsmen to reinforce its southern border, and to expand its policy of taking back migrants as the United States processes their asylum claims.
Ebrard said the National Guard deployment will be complete by Tuesday, and that 825 additional immigration officers will start work this weekend.
In Washington, Trump appeared content to play nice with Mexico — for now.
“Big difference in the border between now and this time last week. Mexico has been doing a terrific job. Hey, 6,000 soldiers, and if it doesn’t work out, then we go back to very strong measures,” he said on Fox News.
He added that if Mexico did not address the issue to his satisfaction, he would make it implement a safe third country agreement.
Angry lawmakers
Any such deal would have to go through Mexico’s Senate — and lawmakers there look ready for a fight.
Speaking during Ebrard’s testimony before Congress, Senator Dulce Maria Sauri of opposition party PRI rejected the foreign minister’s claim that Mexico had not signed a binding agreement.
After reading the document Trump so dramatically pulled from his pocket, she said: “Mr Foreign Minister, to put it plainly, this is binding.”
Her colleague Damian Zepeda of conservative opposition party PAN accused the executive branch of getting run over by the Trump administration.
“We still have the (tariff) ultimatum hanging over us, and on top of that we gave up the most precious jewel: we agreed to safe third country,” he said.
There was even criticism from some in the president’s party, Morena, which holds strong majorities in both houses.
They included the speaker of Congress, Porfirio Munoz Ledo, who says the Mexican government and Trump administration “want to turn our country into a cage” for migrants.
In a warning signal for Lopez Obrador, senators froze committee proceedings Wednesday on ratifying the USMCA, the country’s new and important trade agreement with the United States and Canada, saying they wanted to question Ebrard on the migration deal first.
In another sign of turbulence, the head of the National Migration Institute, Tonatiuh Guillen, abruptly resigned Friday. He will be replaced by prisons commissioner Francisco Garduno, the government said.






The latest incident in the strategic Strait of Hormuz comes amid soaring tensions between the two foes, with Washington already reeling from Iran shooting down one of its drones last month.
US President Donald Trump said an American naval vessel downed an Iranian drone on Thursday that threatened the ship as it was entering the Strait — a claim vehemently denied by Tehran.
Iran’s armed forces dismissed Trump’s assertion as “baseless and delusional”.
“All of (Iran’s) drones… have safely returned to their bases,” said armed forces spokesman Brigadier General Abolfazl Shekarchi.
“There have been no reports of a confrontation with the American USS Boxer” naval vessel, he added, quoted by Tasnim.
Trump said Thursday the USS Boxer “took defensive action” against an Iranian aircraft as it was “threatening the safety” of the vessel and its crew.
The Pentagon said the ship “was in international waters” when a drone approached.
“The ship took defensive action against the UAS to ensure the safety of the ship and its crew,” Pentagon spokesman Jonathan Hoffman said.
But Iran’s deputy foreign minister Abbas Araghchi said such an incident had never taken place, saying the Islamic republic had not lost any aircraft.
“I am worried that USS Boxer has shot down their own (drone) by mistake!” Abbas Araghchi tweeted Friday.
 Iran detains tanker 
The confrontation comes after Tehran shot down an American surveillance drone in June it said was flying in its airspace, a claim denied by the United States.
Trump said he called off retaliatory strikes at the last minute following the incident.
Iran has, in turn, refuted US accusations that it was behind a series of recent tanker attacks off the United Arab Emirates coast and the Gulf of Oman.
The tanker troubles further intensified on July 4, when Gibraltar detained an Iranian vessel with the help of British Royal Marines.
US officials believed the tanker was destined for Syria to deliver oil, in violation of separate sets of European Union and US sanctions.
Iran furiously branded the seizure “piracy”, and one week later, London said Iranian boats menaced a British tanker in the Gulf before they were driven off by a Royal Navy frigate.
That led to US calls for an international flotilla to escort hydrocarbon-laden vessels from Gulf oil fields through the Hormuz Strait.
The incidents have raised fears of a regional conflict involving the US and its allies in the Gulf region, through which nearly a third of the world’s oil is transported.
The top commander of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards’ said they were not seeking to “initiate a war” but would respond to hostilities.
“If enemies make a mistake in calculation, our defensive strategy and all our capacities will change to offensive,” said General Hossein Salami, quoted by the force’s Sepahnews website.
His comments came after the Guards said Thursday they had seized a “foreign tanker” believed to be the Panamanian-flagged vessel Riah and its crew.
Iran’s Revolutionary Guards accuse the ship of smuggling Iranian fuel.
 ‘Psychological pressure’ 
US Central Command chief Kenneth McKenzie pledged Thursday to work “aggressively” with partners to ensure freedom of navigation in Gulf waters.
But the Guards’ deputy chief said the United States will soon realise “it is not in its interest at all to stay in the region”.
US forces are under mounting “psychological pressure” in the Gulf, Brigadier-General Ali Fadavi was quoted by Tasnim as saying.
The drone incident comes amid a threatened breakdown of the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, with Washington steadily ratcheting up economically debilitating sanctions on Tehran a year after unilaterally quitting the deal.
Earlier this month, Tehran purposely surpassed the deal’s caps on uranium enrichment, aiming to pressure the remaining parties to make good on their promises to support Iran economically.
Iran has repeatedly threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz if Tehran’s oil exports are blocked through sanctions. 
Last month Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh said Iran was keeping up sales through “unconventional” means to circumvent the US measures.
Turkish soldiers and Turkey-back Syrian fighters patrol the northern Syrian Kurdish town of Tal Abyad, on the border between Syria and Turkey, on October 23, 2019. – Moscow’s forces in Syria headed for the border with Turkey today to ensure Kurdish fighters are pulling back after a Turkish-Russian deal wrested control of the Kurds’ entire heartland. Kurdish forces, who controlled close to a third of Syria two weeks ago, have now lost almost everything, after the agreement signed in Sochi granted Turkey the right to remain fully deployed in an Arab-majority area that was the main target of an offensive launched on October 9. (Photo by Bakr ALKASEM / AFP)
The numbers, which aid workers say have reached more than 7,500 since Turkish forces and allied militiamen launched the offensive on October 9, is increasing by the hundreds on a daily basis.
They have been crossing to Bardarach inside neighbouring Iraqi Kurdistan to a tent camp previously used to shelter Iraqis fleeing the Islamic State group.
The US-led coalition which backed the Syrian Kurds in defeating IS “has betrayed us and abandoned us”, said a woman from the battleground town of Ras al-Ain on the Turkish border, declining to give her name.
She cursed US President Donald Trump and his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan “who have caused so much suffering for our people”.
It was Trump’s decision on October 7 to withdraw US troops who had been serving as a buffer against a Turkish attack that cleared the way for the invasion of Kurdish-held northeastern Syria.
Turkey targeted the Kurdish YPG militia, viewed by Ankara as “terrorists” linked to the outlawed Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), and has carved a “safe zone” inside Syria, with Kurdish forces have pulled out.
The offensive killed dozens of civilians, mainly on the Kurdish side, and prompted an exodus of tens of thousands, in the latest humanitarian crisis of Syria’s eight-year civil war.
More than 250 Kurdish fighters were killed in the offensive Ankara dubbed “Operation Peace Spring”.
As US forces were redeploying to a base inside Iraqi Kurdistan on Monday, Kurdish villagers on both sides of the border hurled rotten tomatoes and insults at their armoured vehicles.
The Syrian Kurds, for their part, left behind “bombed-out homes… and many dead lying on the streets” of Ras al-Ain, said the woman from the town that was a primary goal of Turkey’s air and land offensive.
“That tyrant Erdogan must be stopped!” bellowed Mohammed Ali, newly arrived at the camp with his five children from the town of Qamishli, appealing for the United Nations to intervene.
He told AFP that his family had fled the “evil destruction” in Syrian Kurdistan.
Iraqi Kurdish peshmerga fighters have to wait to process arrivals at the informal border crossing of Al-Walid from where they are transferred by bus to the camp in the border province of Dohuk.
Marius Martinelli of medical charity Doctors Without Borders (MSF) said most new arrivals from northeastern Syria, which had kept out of the worst turmoil of the country’s civil war, showed signs of “anxiety and depression”.
After decades of marginalisation, Syria’s Kurds have been building their own institutions in the northeast since 2012 when government forces withdrew.
Another aid group, the Norwegian Refugee Council, said the number of cross-border refugees could climb as high as 50,000.
More than 160,000 people have been forced to flee their homes since Turkey launched its offensive, according to UN estimates.
On the heels of the foregoing debacle, Trump’s recent attacks on Congressman Elijah Cummings for carrying out his sworn duty as the chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives Oversight Committee, witnessed escalating racial diatribes visited on the African- American lawmaker and recipient of 13 honorary doctoral degrees. The U.S. city of Baltimore which he represents was also not spared.
The volley of abuse was ostensibly because the oversight committee’s investigations did not stop at the water’s edge, but dared to cross over into the opaque activities of Trump’s family members serving in his administration. This apparently crossed a rubicon, sending Trump into a tailspin as he took to twitter to launch a torrent of abuse. He stated that Baltimore is a “disgusting, rat and rodent infested mess’’ and that no human would want to live there. Emanating from the U.S. President these dire characterizations of Baltimore are official. Therefore, it is left to the global community to draw our conclusions from Trump’s imagery of Baltimore as a blighted waste-land, completely colonized by rats and other rodents, to the extent that human life is unsustainable. By extrapolation we are to believe that rats have the upper hand in Baltimore. Ergo, international travelers to the U.S. await further elucidation of Trump’s Baltimore city “rodent infestation” assertions from our respective U.S. embassies.
It is scientifically incontrovertible that rats are carriers of plague causing bacteria. The disease was responsible for the death of millions in medieval Europe before the advent of antibiotics. In an article by Dr. Karine Tawagi for ABC News published on June 13, 2018 entitled, “The plague still exists, here’s what it’s like now in the U.S.” She wrote, “A child in Idaho is recovering after being struck with the plague, leaving many wondering how the plague exists in the 21st century….The plague, in spite of its lethal reputation, is not uncommon in the U.S.” It would therefore not be a stretch of the imagination to postulate that an outbreak of the plague is not beyond the realm of possibility. According to the U.S. Center for Disease Control and Prevention “human plague infections continue to occur in the Western United States…most human cases occur in northern New Mexico, northern Arizona, southern Colorado, California, southern Oregon and far western Nevada”.
According to Christina Maza of U.S. Newsweek, some Baltimore residents agreed that Trump was lumping their city in with ‘shit hole’ countries. Trump’s ungodly reference to African nations is on its face a rebuke of God, whom the bible he and his followers claim to be adherents of, states made “all men in His image.” Historically, most if not all our democracies were cynically cobbled together as a by-product of self-serving European imperial interests. In our unceasing struggles to overcome challenging and pervasive circumstances and conditions, we traditionally looked to the U.S. as an exemplar and partner in progress. The current state of dysfunction stemming from the Trump Administration can be attributed significantly to the pall engulfing Trump and members of his inner circle, as they have come under official investigations and been subjected to judicial proceedings for varying degrees of malfeasance. It gives me no joy or satisfaction to state that several negative indicators used as markers in measuring development in Africa, appear to dovetail with America in the full throes of Trumpism. This state of affairs could not be sadder or truer as we are witnessing in real time the denudation of democratic ideals and values exponentially, whilst Trump fans the flames of intolerance and racial violence. Trump owes Africa an apology.
•Fowler is an international lawyer.






CHICAGO, IL – OCTOBER 28: Demonstrators protest President Donald Trump’s visit to Chicago outside Trump International Hotel & Tower on October 28, 2019 in Chicago, Illinois. Trump, who visited Chicago for the first time since taking office addressed the International Association of Chiefs of Police meeting at McCormick Place and attended a fundraiser.   Joshua Lott/Getty Images/AFP
The move marks a shift in strategy by Democrats who had insisted for weeks that they did not need a floor vote to proceed with an investigation into Trump’s dealings with Ukraine, a posture that angered Republicans who relentlessly attacked the process as unfair.
The chamber will go on record for the first time to “lay out the next steps for the inquiry,” a senior Democratic aide told AFP Monday after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi informed fellow Democrats of the plan.
The effort appears aimed in part at pushing back against Republican criticism that the investigation was not providing Trump with due process.
“This week, we will bring a resolution to the floor that affirms the ongoing, existing investigation that is currently being conducted by our committees as part of this impeachment inquiry,” Pelosi said in a letter to her caucus.
The measure is likely to pass in the Democratic-controlled House given that 228 Democrats, out of a total 435 House members, are on record supporting impeachment or an impeachment inquiry.
The measure “establishes the procedure for hearings that are open to the American people, authorizes the disclosure of deposition transcripts (and) outlines procedures to transfer evidence to the Judiciary Committee as it considers potential articles of impeachment,” she added.
To date, all witness testimony in the month-long inquiry has been taken behind closed doors, leading Republicans to slam the process — without merit — as secretive and illegitimate.
 ‘Eliminate any doubt’ 
The resolution, Pelosi said, also “sets forth due process rights for the President and his Counsel” — steps that Republicans had repeatedly stressed were being ignored by the House’s majority party.
“We are taking this step to eliminate any doubt as to whether the Trump administration may withhold documents, prevent witness testimony, disregard duly authorized subpoenas, or continue obstructing the House of Representatives,” she added.
The White House reacted swiftly.
Pelosi “is finally admitting what the rest of America already knew -– that Democrats were conducting an unauthorized impeachment proceeding, refusing to give the president due process, and their secret, shady, closed-door depositions are completely and irreversibly illegitimate,” Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham said.
Trump himself retweeted his top House lieutenant, Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who said “today’s backtracking is an admission that this process has been botched from the start.”
In fact, depositions are often taken in private, to avoid witnesses aligning their stories, and this was the practice during Watergate and, more recently, in the Republicans’ Benghazi investigations.
The House rules allowing for closed-door hearings limited to members of the investigating committees in a secure room were passed by Congress in 2015, when it was controlled by the Republicans.
Pelosi, Trump’s chief adversary in Congress, made her move as the impeachment showdown took an urgent new tone in Washington with a key witness defying a US House subpoena to testify.
The White House has sought to block the appearance by ex-deputy national security advisor Charles Kupperman, who last week took the rare step of filing a lawsuit urging a court to rule on whether he should obey the commands of the executive branch or the legal imperatives of Congress.
Democrats are keen to hear from Kupperman, as he reportedly was on the July 25 telephone call between Trump and his Ukrainian counterpart in which the US leader pushed Kiev to investigate his political opponents.
That request by Trump, and accusations he conditioned nearly $400 million in military aid to Ukraine on the political favor, form the basis of the impeachment inquiry that began five weeks ago and now threatens his presidency.
House Rules Committee Chairman Jim McGovern said he would introduce the impeachment inquiry “transparency” measure Tuesday, and that the panel would debate it and hold a preliminary vote 3.00 pm (1900 GMT) Wednesday.
Should it clear the committee, it heads to the floor for a full vote the following day. 
"There was no blackmail," the comedian-turned-politician told a news conference. A transcript of the phone conversation showed Trump asked Zelensky to investigate his political rival Joe Biden. 
The US president's request that Zelensky probe the activities of Joe Biden's son Hunter has sparked an impeachment probe in the US, with the Democrats looking into whether Trump used a delayed aid package as leverage.  
Trump wanted Kiev to investigate Hunter Biden's activities in Ukrainian gas firm Burisma. 
"The story with Burisma has nothing to do with weapons," Zelensky told the press conference, held in a Kiev food court. 
The sole aim of the phone call, he said, was to plan a meeting with Trump.
He added that there were no "conditions" from the US side to set up the meeting. 
"We just wanted to establish relations," he said. 
Text messages released by Democrats show Kurt Volker, Trump's former US special envoy to Ukraine, telling a top Zelensky aide that he should open an investigation in return for a visit to Washington.
Opponents of Trump say the president used promised financial aid as leverage over the Ukrainian leader in a bid to pressure him into launching an investigation into Biden. 
Following the phone call, Zelensky said his defence minister told him "there is a problem, the money has been blocked." 
But he said the issue was not discussed in the phone call with Trump. 
Zelensky said the phone call will not affect relations between Washington and Kiev. 
Trump alleges that Joe Biden tried to block a Ukraine corruption probe into his son's business partner, a Ukraine gas tycoon.
Burisma says it is the largest private producer of natural gas and one of Ukraine's leading gas groups.
Trump ignored them all, and could still claim vindication Thursday after the Mueller report cleared him of collusion charges.
He beat back the investigation that threatened his presidency with constant attacks on investigators and the media, a canny narrative that denied obvious facts, nonstop trolling of opponents on Twitter, and a crafty legal stall.
It was hugely risky, but it appears to have paid off — notwithstanding further investigations Congressional Democrats have promised into Trump’s alleged abuse of his authority.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report Thursday ruled that Trump’s campaign did not criminally conspire with Russians to skew the 2016 election, and drew no conclusion on allegations of obstruction.
That allowed Trump’s hand-picked Attorney General Bill Barr to declare the president fully cleared.
“As I have been saying all along, NO COLLUSION – NO OBSTRUCTION!” Trump tweeted in a fist-pump of victory.
 ‘Witch hunt’ 
Trump began his campaign well before Mueller arrived, denying during 2016 that Russia was interfering in the election, even though US spy chiefs said they were.
He could have just accepted it, but the claim marred his election victory. So he called it “fake news” and said the intelligence community was out to undermine him.
He made things worse in May 2017 when, angered by the ongoing probe into Russian meddling, he fired Comey.
The result was Mueller’s appointment to lead the Russia investigation, expanding it to include obstruction of justice.
“This is the end of my presidency. I’m fucked,” Trump said that day, according to Mueller’s report.
But the next day, he switched gears into offence, launching a grinding public relations war guided mostly by his own instincts.
“This is the single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history!” he tweeted.
It was pure Trump style — weaving a narrative that struck a chord with his supporters and riled his opponents.
The Russia allegations were a hoax, he alleged, Democrats were trying to avenge Hillary Clinton’s election defeat, and Comey and Mueller were corrupt.
With Fox News, influential with the political right, echoing his claims, voters who formed Trump’s electoral base bought the story of a “witch hunt.”
 Legal team turmoil 
Trump often proved his own enemy. His staff struggled to block his orders to remove Mueller, which could have resulted in impeachment. 
His constant attacks on Mueller’s investigators, the Justice Department, and potential witnesses against him bolstered the allegations of obstruction.
And his legal team was in constant turmoil, wrestling with a client who didn’t follow advice or tell them the truth. 
Early members of the team wanted to cooperate with Mueller, seeing that as the president’s best option.
But for Trump, it was not about law, but the image, and the best approach was guerilla warfare fought through the media and Twitter.
With Mueller’s investigators closing in on the White House in early 2018, Trump churned his team, recruiting attorneys who would fight back. 
He hired Rudy Giuliani, a fellow New Yorker who like Trump saw the challenge as a street fight.
Giuliani fed reporters tidbits behind the scenes and went on television with tactical denials and counterattacks that may have had little real substance but supported Trump’s claim that he was under political assault.
By mid-2018 Trump appeared to have scored a major victory: seeing his ability to hold onto his conservative base, Republicans rallied behind him ahead of the November elections.
 ‘Perjury trap’ 
Crucial to Trump’s success, too, was avoiding being interviewed by the investigators.
“I’m looking forward to it, actually,” he declared in January 2018.
Behind the scenes, his team stalled, first demanding written questions, then arguing over which questions they would answer.
Giuliani accused Mueller of setting up a “perjury trap,” saying his client, known for liberally delivering falsehoods and sometimes spilling truths he should withhold, was being set up.
Meanwhile, the White House pressured Mueller to wrap up the investigation, saying he was spending too much money on the ever-spiralling probe.
Finally, Mueller’s team agreed to take written answers, which arrived only in late November. 
The answers were “inadequate,” the Mueller report said: Trump replied more than 30 times that he could not recall something, and elsewhere gave incomplete or imprecise responses.
But when Mueller’s team sought to follow-up in person, Trump refused.
By that time, Mueller’s team realized it was too late in the investigation to launch into a constitutional fight with the White House. They opted to go with what they had.
 The Barr factor 
Trump’s final coup was to replace attorney general Jeff Sessions with Bill Barr.
Trump wasn’t acquainted with the Washington corporate lawyer, but he learned that Barr was a critic of Mueller who had a constitutional argument against Trump being charged with obstruction.
Trump’s dismissal of Jeff Sessions in November opened the door for Barr to become attorney general, someone who would be able to find a legal way to protect Trump from charges.
Barr did the job: after seeing Mueller’s conclusions, he declared that the evidence on obstruction did not amount to enough to charge the president, and that was that.
Trump had won.
As flags flew at half-mast at the White House and across the country and the death toll edged up by two, Trump made an unusually direct condemnation of racists as he took on the role of consoler in chief.
But as the country tried to digest weekend shootings that left 22 dead at a Walmart store in El Paso, Texas and another nine outside a bar in Dayton, Ohio, Trump offered little in the way of new ideas for a country awash with guns and painfully accustomed to mass shootings.
“Our nation must condemn racism, bigotry, and white supremacy,” Trump said.
He stressed that mental illness was the main culprit fueling mass shootings in America, as opposed to the ready availability of firearms or extremist thinking, as argued by gun control advocates.
At the sites of America’s latest massacres — numbers 250 and 251 so far this year — people came to honor the dead.

Read More: Trump to address nation after US shootings leave 29 dead

Makeshift memorials with candles, flowers, heart-shaped balloons and posters with messages of condolence sprang up outside the Walmart in Texas and the Dayton bar.
“You are loved,” read an inscription on a small yellow cardboard heart placed outside the Ned Peppers Bar.
Outside the Walmart store that was attacked Saturday, people paused to pay their respects at the memorial. Balloons shaped like stars — Texas is the Lone Star State — fluttered in the morning breeze.
One poster read: “A date never to forget: August 3, 2019.”
In his brief address, Trump made no mention of two ideas he had tweeted hours earlier: tightening background checks for gun buyers and linking gun control reform to changes in immigration law.
The president did say he supported “red flag” laws allowing authorities to confiscate weapons from people believed to present grave risks. 
Many people were grateful that even more were not killed in Ohio.
In Texas, 25 people were wounded, and another 26 were hurt in Ohio, where the shooter was killed in roughly 30 seconds by police who were patrolling nearby. 
Two of those wounded in Texas died Monday.






President Donald Trump on Friday ruled out any further postponement. "They're on," he told reporters.
The new tariffs will target a range of products, from foodstuffs (ketchup, butchered meat, pork sausage, fruits, vegetables, milk, cheese) to sports equipment (golf clubs, surfboards, bicycles), to musical instruments, sportswear, and furniture, according to an official list.
Economists at the Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics estimate $112 billion in goods will be affected.
The trade war touched off by Trump more than a year ago received its latest jolt last week with the US announcement that all Chinese goods would be subjected to tariffs by the end of this year.
More than $250 billion worth of China's $540 billion in exports to the US (2018 figure) is already subject to tariffs.
Trump's announcement earlier this month drew a retaliatory move from Beijing, which said it would target $75 billion in US goods, beginning in part on September 1.
Hundreds of US companies and professional groups have appealed to the Trump administration to postpone the new tariffs, saying they would destroy jobs and place a burden on consumers.
But on Friday, the Republican president, already campaigning for a second term, said those complaining were themselves partly at fault.
"Badly run and weak companies are smartly blaming these small Tariffs instead of themselves for bad management," he tweeted. "...and who can really blame them for doing that? Excuses!"
- 'I hereby order' -
Days earlier, Trump caused widespread consternation when he tweeted "I hereby order" American companies to stop doing business with China, sparking both doubts and derision. His aides quickly sought to dial it back.
The president launched his trade war in March 2018, demanding that China end practices widely seen as unfair, such as forced technology transfers from US firms and the massive subsidies are given Chinese enterprises.
While the strategy is clearly weighing on the Chinese economy, it has produced few positive results.
A further round of tariffs could sharply cut Chinese growth, the International Monetary Fund recently predicted, and continuing tensions could spark a global slowdown.
Yet Chinese leaders have shown little inclination to give in.
Trade negotiations have been at an impasse for months.
At the recent G7 meeting in France, Trump spoke of new communications between US and Chinese negotiators -- giving financial markets a brief boost -- but China's foreign ministry said it was unaware of such contacts.
While the US president insists the American economy has been unaffected by the trade war, he has identified a culprit should things slow down: the Federal Reserve.
For now, the US economy is doing well, to judge by GDP growth and a still-low inflation rate.
But the trade war has clearly weighed on company investment practices and consumer confidence -- which in August marked its sharpest decline since December 2012, according to a University of Michigan study.
"The August data indicate that the erosion of consumer confidence due to tariff policies is now well underway," said Richard Curtin, the economist who directs the Michigan survey.
In a sign of administration concern about the impact of the new tariff round -- particularly ahead of this year's Christmas shopping season -- some Chinese products will not be affected until December 15.
They include cell phones, laptop computers, and some toys.
American consumers account for 75 percent of GDP growth.






The exemptions will become effective on September 17 and be valid for a year, according to the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council, which released two lists that include seafood products and anti-cancer drugs.
The lists mark the first time Beijing has announced products to be excluded from tariffs.
Other categories that will become exempt include alfalfa pellets, fish feed, medical linear accelerators and mould release agents, while the commission said it was also considering further exemptions.
Trade negotiators have said they will meet in Washington in early October, raising hopes for an easing of tensions between the world's two biggest economies.
Both sides imposed fresh tit-for-tat tariffs on September 1 in the latest round of levies, which now cover goods worth hundreds of billions of dollars.
"These adjustments signal that China is more willing to make progress in the October trade talks, likely toward striking a 'narrow' agreement that involves China buying more US goods in exchange for the US suspending further tariff hikes," Barclays analysts said in a research note.
The analysts said Beijing had been sounding a more "constructive" note in recent weeks over trade relations.
In a sign of the pressure being felt by China, the central People's Bank of China said on Friday it would cut the amount of cash lenders must keep in reserve, allowing for an estimated $126 billion in additional loans to businesses.
China's economy grew 6.2 percent on-year in the second quarter, the lowest rate in nearly three decades.
President Donald Trump on Friday said the weight of the protracted trade war is damaging China more than the US.
"China is eating the tariffs," he said on Twitter, repeating his claim that higher duties mean Washington is collecting billions of dollars from the Asian giant, without costs being passed on to US consumers.
But experts have warned there are signs the US is also feeling the pinch, with job creation slowing across major industries last month.
Since his assumption of office amidst the welter of furores that greeted the elections, which produced him, some policies he met on the ground have worn formidable, new garb. The most noticeable are the immigration policy and the ‘border system’, which have so far seen many heads roll.
No hairs should be split over the forces behind the enormous power being wielded by President Donald Trump. 
As far as anyone can tell, the president is merely operating from the ideology set up by the Founding Fathers of the US. This set of ideas, coupled with the US slogans gave impetus to his 2016 campaigns. 
Trump made massive deportation of immigrants and building of wall his rallying cries during his campaigns across major US cities, because according to the executive order he signed, the wall is meant to keep at bay illegal immigrants, drug and human trafficking, and terrorism.
The president is ineluctably obsessed with building a wall at the US/Mexico border at all cost in order to check illegal influxes of the ‘bad ones’ into the US. 
As a powerful president of the US, Donald Trump feels obliged to reciprocate the goodwill of the teeming American people who saw him to power. 
His mission is clear: immigration, employment opportunity, security, economy, and healthcare delivery must be kept stronger, and the life of a single American – white, black or brown – means much to him.
However, Trump’s 5.7 billion dollars request has met stiff opposition from the Democrats in the White House and elicited criticism from people around the globe. 
A Professor Emeritus, Michael Dear, for instance, takes a dim view of the success of the project when he declares thus: ‘The reality is that a wall, no matter how ‘big’, how ‘beautiful’ and how ‘ahead of schedule’ Trump builds it, cannot be an effective enforcement tool.’ 
He further claims that ‘The immigration system is plagued with problems and factors that building a wall cannot fix. It might just end up making some of them worse.’ 
Indeed Michael Dear goes ahead to list five things that make the Trump wall castles in the air. The wall will not work because there are many undocumented immigrants already residing in the US. Secondly, cartels can always outwit checkpoints. 
Thirdly, terrorists are not undocumented. Then, there is the economy factor. And lastly, Dear says that immigration courts are already overwhelmed.
The Democrats see the project as a white elephant poised to swallow taxpayers’ money and would rather Trump channelled the huge sum into the health sector and bought tools and equipment for Immigration Department. Their initial uncompromising stance irked the president who decided to play his trump card and swing surprises that nudged many a federal worker. 
Questioning eyebrows need not be raised therefore, to see many Democrats ready to stop Donald Trump from being re-elected next year. Hillary Clinton, Oprah Winfrey, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren and Amy Klobuchar are some of the women who have thrown their hat into the ring for the 2020 presidential race.
While there still seems to be wind of dissatisfaction howling in the White House as some issues are not yet unravelled, the Democrats will do well to give the president their support and find some common ground. The president has to build his wall – be it of concrete or of Pennsylvania steel; one thousand miles or two – because the number of undocumented immigrants entering the US from Mexico has hit an all-time high in thirteen years, and this bothers the president. 
It is time all Americans reviewed their stance and supported Donald Trump now that the shutdown is revoked and federal workers are back from furlough. The possibility of invoking another shutdown by the president if the House does not meet his demand is however, not ruled out.
Good fencing makes good neighbours. The US needs good fencing in order to maintain robust relationship with the outside world. The country has been jealously guarded enough by successive administrations for it to be habitable. 
Drink-driving, child abuse, over-speeding, bribery and corruption, sexual assault, hate speech, et cetera are treated with seriousness in the law courts. No matter the level of severe criticism the Trump wall has generated, President Donald Trump wins my plaudits because I know that the project he has embarked upon is not a utopian one: it is for the benefit of the US and its people; it is for the good of Mexico and other contiguous nations; and by extension, it is to the advantage of the whole world.
Whether the wall is a waste of taxpayers’ money or not, President Donald Trump means well for the US. Whether desperate immigrants from Tijuana will still jump the wall or enter San Diego in California through a canal or not, the president is out to save the US from disintegration. 
Whether illegal immigrants from Russia will penetrate Arizona or Rio Grande Valley in Texas or not, President Trump is wholeheartedly committed to building robust security and keeping Department of Homeland Security away from terrorists. 
Whether Nigerians who got to Tripoli wrongly from Aghezi will arrive in the US through Italy or Spain, the Trump wall is not a utopian scheme. Landowners whose property are under threat in Hidalgo and Starr Counties in Rio Grande Valley should not press charges against the US government for patriotism’s sake.
• Sola writes from the Department of English Studies, University of Port Harcourt.






"Based on Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen's comments, that she would have no interest in discussing the purchase of Greenland, I will be postponing our meeting scheduled in two weeks for another time," Trump tweeted.
During a Sunday visit to Greenland -- the largest island on Earth -- Frederiksen called Trump's idea "absurd."
"The Prime Minister was able to save a great deal of expense and effort for both the United States and Denmark by being so direct," Trump tweeted.
"I thank her for that and look forward to rescheduling sometime in the future!".
The development was "a surprise", said Lene Balleby, the head of communications for the Danish Royal House, according to public broadcaster DR.
The president's latest Greenland comments sparked a strong reaction from both sides of the political aisle in Denmark.
"Reality transcends imagination... this man is unpredictable," said Morten Ostergaard of the Social Liberal Party, which is part of the ruling coalition.
"For no reason, Trump assumes that (an autonomous) part of our country is for sale. Then insultingly cancels visit that everybody was preparing for," tweeted Rasmus Jarlov, a member of the opposition Conservative Party.
"Are parts of the US for sale? Alaska? Please show more respect."
 'A large real estate deal' 
The Wall Street Journal first reported that Trump had expressed interest in the self-governing part of Denmark -- which is mostly covered in ice -- asking advisors if it would be possible for the US to acquire the territory.
The president, a former real estate magnate, has been curious about the area's natural resources and geopolitical relevance, the paper said.
Trump confirmed his interest on Sunday, but said it was not a priority for his administration and the Denmark trip was "not for this reason at all."
"It's something we talked about," he told reporters.
Asked if he would consider trading a US territory for Greenland, Trump replied that "a lot of things could be done."
"Essentially, it's a large real estate deal."
The next day, Trump jokingly promised that he would not build one of his eponymous hotels in Greenland, tweeting a meme depicting the golden Trump International Hotel Las Vegas towering over modest, primary-coloured houses along a rocky coast.
"I promise not to do this to Greenland!" he wrote.
The meme first appeared on Twitter Thursday with the caption: "Greenland in 10 years."
Denmark colonized the 772,000 square-mile (two-million square-kilometer) island in the 18th century. It is home to around 57,000 people, most of the indigenous Inuit community.
Greenland's ministry of foreign affairs insisted Friday the island was ready to talk business but was not for sale.
"#Greenland is rich invaluable resources such as minerals, the purest water and ice, fish stocks, seafood, renewable energy and is a new frontier for adventure tourism," it tweeted.
"We're open for business, not for sale."
“Twitter should let the banned Conservative Voices back onto their platform, without restriction,” he wrote.
“It’s called Freedom of Speech, remember. You are making a Giant Mistake!”
Twitter, and other social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, have recently moved to block personalities accused of inciting violence, and using the platforms to promote anti-Semitism, racism and conspiracy theories.
The decisions were taken under pressure from critics who think the social networks are not acting quickly enough to remove shocking or problematic material.
Those banished by one or more of the platforms include Alex Jones, a notorious purveyor of conspiracy theories toward whom Trump has expressed sympathy in the past, and Paul Nehlen, a white supremacist who ran unsuccessfully in Republican primaries for a US congressional seat.
It’s not the first time the US president has accused Twitter, Facebook or Google of discriminating against right-wing users.
The Republican billionaire, whose Twitter account is followed by nearly 61 million people, regularly attacks the high-tech giants as politically biased or, as he put it in a recent tweet, “sooo on the side of the Radical Left Democrats.”






SOMIS, CA – NOVEMBER 01: The Maria Fire burns on a hillside as it expanded to 8,000 acres on its first night on November 1, 2019 near Somis, California. Southern California has been hit by a series of dangerous, fast-moving wildfires this week as Santa Ana Winds ushered in strong gusts up to 80 mph and extremely low humidity.   David McNew/Getty Images/AFP
Over the past two weeks, fires have ravaged nearly 100,000 acres (40,000 hectares) in the sprawling western state, where firefighters on Sunday were battling the Maria Fire, about 60 miles (100 kilometers) northwest of Los Angeles.
Taking a line of attack he first used last year when fires killed 86 people in northern California, Trump blamed Governor Gavin Newsom, saying he had done “a terrible job of forest management.”
“Every year, as the fire’s (sic) rage & California burns, it is the same thing and then he comes to the Federal Government for $$$ help. No more. Get your act together Governor,” he said on Twitter.  
Newsom, responding on Twitter, brushed off Trump’s criticism in a terse 12 words: “You don’t believe in climate change. You are excused from this conversation.”
Newsom had offered a fuller critique in a recent interview with The New York Times, pointing to Trump’s roll-back of environmental protections.
“We’re waging war against the most destructive fires in our state’s history,” he said, “and Trump is conducting a full-on assault against the antidote.”
The president has on several occasions openly questioned the scientific consensus that human activity causes changes in the climate, and notably the drought that has contributed to the California fires.
His administration decided on September 18 to revoke California’s authority to set its own standards for automobile pollution.
Newsom criticized the Republican government’s ambivalence in dealing with the disasters.
“Last night they approved seven additional emergency grants in record time,” Newsom told the Times. “But what’s so insidious, and what’s so remarkable is that he’s doing everything right to respond to these disasters and everything wrong to address what’s happening to cause them.”
Far from the political struggles, firefighters were continuing to press their fight against the Maria Fire, which they said Sunday is now 70 percent contained, and the Kincade Fire north of San Francisco, now 78 percent contained.
Other fires, including some that threatened multi-million-dollar homes and iconic institutions in the Los Angeles area, have subsided, and residents who had evacuated are beginning to return home.
The warning is the latest salvo in a dispute that has intensified since President Donald Trump ramped up tariffs against China and moved to blacklist telecom giant Huawei earlier this month, while trade talks have apparently stalled.
Huawei stepped up its legal battle on Wednesday, announcing it had filed a motion in US court for summary judgment to speed up its bid to overturn US legislation that bars federal agencies from using its equipment over security concerns.
Beijing had already dropped a big hint that rare earths could be in the firing line by showing images last week of President Xi Jinping visiting a rare earths factory in Ganzhou, central China.
State media made it clearer on Wednesday.
“Will rare earths become China’s counter-weapon against the unprovoked suppression of the US? The answer is not mysterious,” warned The People’s Daily, the Communist Party mouthpiece.
“We advise that US not to underestimate China’s ability to safeguard its own development rights and interests, and not to say we didn’t warn you,” it said.
The state-owned Global Times warned in an editorial that the “US will rue forcing China’s hand on rare earths”.
“It is believed that if the US increasingly suppresses the development of China, sooner or later, China will use rare earths as a weapon,” the nationalist tabloid said.
Shares in rare earth companies surged in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock markets on Wednesday.
An unnamed official from the National Development and Reform Commission, China’s state planner, had issued a cryptic warning late Tuesday.
“What I can tell you is that if anyone wants to use products made from our rare-earth exports to curb and suppress China’s development, I’m sure the people of Ganzhou and across China will not be happy with that,” the official said in answers to questions published by state media.
The official said rare-earth resources should “serve domestic needs first” but China is also willing to meet the “legitimate needs of countries around the world”.
 Huawei fights back 
China produces more than 95 percent of the world’s rare earths, and the United States relies on China for upwards of 80 percent of its imports.
Rare earths are 17 elements critical to manufacturing everything from televisions to cameras and lightbulbs.
Huawei, meanwhile, is fighting back in what is shaping up as a battle for who will dominate the future of high-tech.
Huawei has sued the US over the federal ban. But it also faces a recent Trump administration order that cuts it off from critical American-made components for its products.
“The US government has provided no evidence to show that Huawei is a security threat,” Huawei’s chief legal officer Song Liuping told reporters, rejecting US warnings that the company’s equipment could be used by China to spy on other countries.
 Risky business 
China has been accused of using its rare earth leverage for political reasons before.
Japanese industry sources said it temporarily cut off exports in 2010 as a territorial row flared between the Asian rivals, charges that Beijing denied.
But experts say the Japan experience showed that China’s leverage has some limits.
“Ultimately, concentrated rare earths supply in China had limited economic and political effects,” according to a 2014 report by the Council on Foreign Relations think tank written by University of Texas professor Eugene Gholz.
The report said China’s rare earth advantages were already slipping away in 2010 due to normal market behaviour, including increases in non-Chinese production and processing capacity, and innovations that have contributed to reducing demand for some rare earth elements.
Analysts have said China appears apprehensive of targeting the minerals just yet, possibly fearful of hastening a global search for alternative supplies of the commodities.
“I think China’s current objective is to put pressure on the US for more American concessions in the trade talks and compel the US to be less harsh on Huawei and other Chinese tech companies,” said Li Mingjiang, China programme coordinator at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS) in Singapore.
But China is likely to use a rare earths ban as a policy tool if the US continues to be tough on trade and Huawei, he told AFP.
The Global Times acknowledged that banning rare earth exports to the US could “produce complex effects, including incurring certain losses on China itself.”
However, it added, “China also clearly knows that the US would suffer greater losses in that situation.”
The death of outrage at Trump’s divisive and inflammatory rhetoric on the part of Republicans and many of his diehard supporters – a solid 35% of the electorate – has created an enabling environment for a climate of white supremacist storm-troopers to flourish, an issue which the Barack Obama administration has been criticised for not challenging more forcefully. Trump – behaving like a mad Aladdin unleashing demonic genies he is unable to put back in the lamp – notoriously condoned the actions of neo-Nazi marchers in Charlottesville in 2017.
The U.S. president has more recently kept migrant children in cages; kept their parents in squalid sanitary conditions; and launched raids to arrest illegal immigrants. He has spewed prejudiced poison at four black and brown rookie Democratic legislators nicknamed “the Squad” – Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Rashida Tlaib, and Ayanna Pressley – describing them as unpatriotic anti-Semitic Jew-haters for criticising Israel’s apartheid policies against Palestinians, and pressuring Tel Aviv to deny two of them visas, before asking them to go back to the crime-infested countries they came from. This is despite the fact that three of the women legislators were born in America, while one is a naturalised Somali-American. Trump also derided African-American Democratic Congressman Elijah Cummings’s district in Baltimore – with a large black community – as “a disgusting rat and rodent infested mess,” employing language that dehumanised black citizens similar to his depiction of Africa and Haiti as “shit-holes” last year.
These events are a blowback from the eight-year presidency of the first blackman to inhabit the White House: Kenyan-Kansan, Barack Obama. As America’s demographics change and whites are set to become a minority by 2045,  an irrational and incomprehensible “Great Replacement Theory” has been hatched in which whites are due to be replaced by a coalition of Hispanics and Blacks as part of a Jewish master-plan. In this outlandish conspiracy theory, immigration is described as “white genocide.” This charged political environment has led to countless tragedies:  a 19-year old anti-Semite killed three people in Gilroy, California in July, while a 21-year old whiteman who killed 20 mostly Hispanic Walmart shoppers in the Texan town of El Paso this month echoed Trumpian ideas of an “invasion,” having earlier expressed his wish to kill as many “Mexicans” as possible.
This is ironic considering that Hispanics have lived peacefully in El Paso for centuries, and the U.S. actually stole the territory of Texas from Mexico in 1836. Another 24-year old white “lone wolf” attacker, using a similar military-style assault rifle as the El Paso gunman, killed nine mostly black people in Dayton, Ohio. Despite the continuing paranoia about “Islamic terrorists” in the American imagination, over 70% of the 427 extremist-related killings in the U.S. over the last decade have in fact been committed by these right-wing terrorists.
The rise of right-wing white supremacy is closely related to Trump’s racist rhetoric. The widespread proliferation of individual guns – based on an antiquated constitutional “right to bear arms” – has made the U.S. the only rich country that allows the mass slaughter of its citizens without effective action being taken to ban these dangerous weapons. This situation also says much about America’s system of legalised corruption in which lobby groups like the National Rifle Association (NRA) can literally buy legislators. Republican lawmakers absurdly rushed to blame videogames for the latest carnage.  Even Trump has seemed to be reading from the NRA’s talking points in offering ludicrous suggestions like arming teachers in schools and taking guns from mentally ill people. These are views that the leader of no other Western democracy could utter without being forced out of office.
A major paradox at the heart of American politics is that though most people support the rich paying more taxes to support programmes such as social security and healthcare, Republicans have consistently cut these programmes while passing tax cuts for the super-rich.  Just as with a lack of gun control, the U.S. remains the only rich country in the world without some version of universal health coverage.
America’s economics Nobel laureate, Paul Krugman, has noted that the Republicans’ massive tax cuts of 2017 have largely benefitted very wealthy individuals, as well as greedy corporations which have mostly used tax savings to buy back their own stock. This is despite promises to create jobs, increase business investment, and spread wealth. Krugman described the profligate tax cuts as a “sugar high” which are expected to result in a $1 trillion budget deficit this year (up from $600 billion in 2016), even as America’s crumbling infrastructure has failed to keep up with the likes of China and Japan. As Krugman laconically observed: “Trumponomics has been a big flop.” The reckless Tax-cutting Tariff-man – surrounded by mostly economically illiterate advisers – has also acted as a Protectionist President waging a senseless and self-destructive trade war with China  that has failed to revive American manufacturing and could actually slow world growth. A strong economy is an issue on which Trump was banking to ensure his re-election. Some economists, however, predict a recession, which could well sink his prospects for a second term in office.
America’s corporate media has also played a harmful role in miseducating many generally hospitable and kind-hearted citizens. Liberal channels like CNN and MSNBC represent an echo chamber in which talking heads of similar ideological beliefs are invited to confirm each other’s views. Many of these pundits are often washed-up politicians and policymakers, former government aides who served in fairly lowly positions, or journalists interviewing themselves. Fox News and toxic radio show hosts like Rush Limbaugh spew similar ideological verbiage from a conservative perspective, inviting their friends to join their own echo chamber. This tedious Punch and Judy show incredibly goes on incessantly with little international news, punctuated only by sporadic commercial breaks in which American consumers are invited to buy goods they mostly do not need.
The Democratic Primaries to pick a presidential candidate to face off against Trump in November 2020 has seen lively debates between two dozen candidates in a crowded field. The leading candidate is the avuncular 76-year old Joe Biden, Obama’s loyal vice-president for eight years. Some see him as a safe pair of hands, while others fear that he is too old and gaffe-prone. Biden, however, seems to be the most experienced, well known, and moderate candidate, and perhaps the only one that can defeat Trump in a national race. It would take a spectacular stumble for him to lose his lead in the primaries, though there are still 10 months to go before the concluding primary race. If elected at the age of 77 (Trump himself would be 74), Biden would need a solid vice-president to hand the presidential baton to, probably after a solitary presidential term. Such a single four-year tenure would presumably not be pre-announced for fear of being rendered a lame duck from the start of a potential Biden presidency.
Elizabeth Warren has promised “big, systemic change”, but the Massachusetts Senator is seen as too leftist – “liberal” in America’s bizarre political lexicon – with an elitist professorial background from Harvard University. Many feel that the misogyny among voters that partly sunk Hillary Clinton’s candidacy against Trump in 2016 could also sink Warren’s. The candidate’s exaggerated claims about her Native American ancestry would also lead to continuing ridicule by Trump who has already dubbed her “Pocahontas.” The 77-year old socialist pitchfork proselytiser, Bernie Sanders, is again promising “political revolution” with quixotic policies such as “Medicare and College for all.” The two black candidates – Senators Kamala Harris and Cory Booker – have been disappointing on the hustings. The Democrats, however, would have a strong bench for a solid cabinet, with these candidates, as well as Obama’s impressive former housing secretary, Julián Castro, the precocious 37-year old Pete Buttigieg, and the wonkish Jay Inslee.
The hope of many progressive, cosmopolitan citizens is that one of these Democrats will rid the country and the world of this troublesome president, and start healing some of the wounds that have made America’s body politic so febrile.
Prof. Adebajo, director, Institute for Pan-African Thought and Conversation, University of Johannesburg, South Africa.






The Mail on Sunday’s publication of Ambassador Kim Darroch’s confidential cables set off a furious Trump Twitter storm.
Darroch had called Trump “inept” and his administration “uniquely dysfunctional”.
Trump tweeted back that Darroch “is not liked or well thought of within the U.S. We will no longer deal with him.” He also welcomed the “good news” that Prime Minister Theresa May was stepping down in two weeks.
All of which creates another headache for UK politicians during a tumultuous period in which they must decide how — or even if — Britain will leave the EU on October 31.
 Who leaked? 
The hunt is on for the culprit and the “whodunnit” theories are flying.
Most concern the nuanced politics at play in the UK leadership fight between Brexit-backing former London mayor Boris Johnson and underdog Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt.
One popular theory says the leak was aimed not at Darroch but at the person who is due to replace him in January.
The senior official tipped for the plum US assignment holds pro-European views that upset most Brexiteers.
This would suggest that the culprit was trying to make sure Johnson — seemingly assured of May’s office — settles on someone else.
But the leak has also damaged Britain’s foreign standing and some talk is focused on how much an old rival like Russian President Vladimir Putin stands to gain.
“Of course it would be massively concerning if it was the act of a foreign, hostile state,” Hunt told The Sun.
 Can the ambassador stay? 
UK politicians of all stripes have rallied behind the embattled ambassador and bristled at the thought of Trump simply shoving their man out of Washington.
Whether Darroch can still perform his duties depends on what Trump actually meant in his tweets.
Darroch has already been taken off one White House dinner guest list.
But the UK envoy will be more concerned about maintaining his private contacts and talking to people in Trump’s inner sanctum.
If Trump means “the whole White House staff is closed to you, including the national security adviser, that would be much more serious,” Britain’s former US envoy Christopher Meyer said.
 How bad is the damage? 
UK diplomats worry that the publication of what Downing Street described as Darroch’s “unvarnished” views will put off others from reporting similarly delicate matters.
“The damage is to the confidence of civil servants to put their frank thoughts to ministers,” the Foreign Office’s former permanent under-secretary, Peter Ricketts, wrote in The Guardian.
Ricketts also expressed worry that “Britain’s reputation as a country that knows how to keep its secrets” might be hurt.
Hunt agreed that it was “very important” that UK ambassadors all over “continue to give us their frank assessments”.
 What next ? 
The scandal piles on the pressure for Johnson, Britain’s presumptive premier, to either bow to Trump’s pressure or stick by London’s envoy.
“For Boris Johnson, removing Darroch swiftly from office would be seen as a humiliating cave-in to a bullying foreign power,” the Politico news site wrote.
“But voicing support for the beleaguered ambassador risks damaging relations with Trump from the outset.”
The choice is made all the more important by the next ambassador’s role in negotiating a new US trade agreement that can mitigate the potential damage of Britain’s split from the EU.
 Will the ‘special relationship’ last? 
The “special relationship” term has always been more widely used in Britain than it has in the United States, a superpower that also enjoys “special” ties with countries such as Israel and Canada.
But London provides Washington with a vital and reliable European ally that has been by its side through two world wars.
The sides rely on each other for intelligence and share the same global security vision that has spanned decades and which is almost certain to last.
“The relationship with Washington is based on strong and deep shared interests,” former under-secretary Ricketts wrote.
“Those are unchanged by the leaks.”
“One day he says something, another day he says something,” the 83-year-old Buddhist monk said of the US president. “But I think (there is a) lack of moral principle.”
“When he became president he expressed ‘America First’. That is wrong. America they should take the global responsibility,” the Dalai Lama said, adding that Trump’s emotions are “also a little bit… too complicated”.
The Nobel Peace Prize winner told the BBC from his exile in Dharamsala in northern India that if his successor is a woman then she should be attractive.
“If female Dalai Lama comes, then she should be more attractive,” he said. “If female Dalai Lama, oh, oh… that people, I think to prefer, not see her, that face.”
He also reiterated his views on immigration into Europe, saying that only a “limited number” of refugees should be allowed to stay.
“The European countries should take these refugees and give them education and training, and then aiming is returning to their own land,” he said.
“But the whole of Europe eventually become a Muslim country? Impossible. Or an African country. Also impossible… Keep Europe for Europeans,” he said.
The Dalai Lama has made India his home since fleeing Tibet in 1959 and has been a thorn in Beijing’s side ever since.
China brands him a “wolf in a monk’s robe” and accuses him of trying to split China.
He told the BBC however that he believes China “is changing”, saying he has had contact “entirely privately” with retired Chinese officials and scholars who have connections with the Beijing government.
“I think the Chinese themselves is changing their attitude,” he said, adding that President Xi Jinping had “not yet” asked for a meeting. 
Trump echoed an unsubstantiated remark from tech billionaire Peter Thiel that Google had been working with China’s government or military establishment.
“Billionaire Tech Investor Peter Thiel believes Google should be investigated for treason,” Trump said in a tweet. “A great and brilliant guy who knows this subject better than anyone! The Trump Administration will take a look!”
Google said the allegations were baseless and questioned the motives of Thiel, a longtime Trump supporter who is on the board of tech rival Facebook.
“As we have said before, we do not work with the Chinese military, ” Google said in a statement to AFP.
Google pulled its search engine from China in 2010 to protest efforts by Beijing to censor its search results. It recently began researching a modified version of its search engine for China but said it had no plans to deploy it.
Trump has assailed Google on several occasions, claiming “bias” against him and his supporters.
Earlier this year, he criticized the tech giant for withdrawing from the bidding from a large Pentagon computing contract, but later softened his tone after meeting Google chief executive Sundar Pichai.
Google has limited business operations in China, but one report this year said one of its scientists participated in a research project that could have both civilian and military applications.
Carlos Ghosn is awaiting trial in Japan over charges of under-reporting his salary for years while at Nissan and using company funds for personal expenses. The 65-year-old denies the accusations.
“World leaders are going to be meeting at the G20 at the end of the month,” Carole Ghosn told the BBC in an interview broadcast on Monday.
“I’d like President Trump to speak to Prime Minister (Shinzo) Abe about fair conditions, fair trial conditions, and to let me speak to my husband — and also to respect this presumption of innocence until proven guilty.”
She added that the last time she saw her husband was on April 4 when prosecutors stormed their apartment in the early hours.
Carlos Ghosn, who is a French citizen, was freed in Japan on $4.5 million bail in April after being detained on fresh charges but is living under strict conditions including restrictions on seeing his wife.
Under those bail conditions, Ghosn must stay in Japan and live in a court-appointed residence with cameras to monitor his movements.
“I think all of this could have been dealt with internally within the company. This didn’t need to go this far,” Carole Ghosn added on Monday.
“On top of this, my husband is innocent and time will prove the truth.”
This year’s G20 summit will be held in the Japanese city of Osaka from June 28-29.
Trump upped the ante as negotiators prepared to meet in Washington on Wednesday for what has been billed as a last-ditch round of negotiations to reach a deal or revive the trade war.
“The Trade Deal with China continues, but too slowly, as they attempt to renegotiate. No!” Trump wrote on Twitter on Sunday.
The US leader said tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods would increase from 10 percent to 25 percent on Friday. The United States is already applying custom duties of 25 percent on $50 billion in Chinese high-tech products.
Trump also renewed a threat to impose tariffs on all Chinese imports to the US — worth $539.5 billion last year.
Despite Trump’s tweetstorm, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said a Chinese team was “currently preparing to go to the US for negotiations” — but he did not say when or whether top negotiator Liu He would lead the delegation.
Geng said “positive progress” has been made in 10 rounds of high-level negotiations and that the whole world was watching. 
“We still hope that the US can work together with China, walk shoulder to shoulder and strive for a mutually beneficial win-win agreement on the basis of mutual respect,” he said at a regular press briefing.
“This is not only in line with the interests of the Chinese side but also the interests of the US and the international community,” Geng said.
The Wall Street Journal had earlier reported that China was considering cancelling the talks.
“China shouldn’t negotiate with a gun pointed to its head,” the newspaper quoted a person briefed on the matter as saying, using a line Beijing has repeatedly said in the past.
Chinese shares sank following the tweets, with Shanghai stocks tumbling by more than five percent, their worst day in more than three years. Hong Kong plunged by 2.90 percent while Shenzhen ended down 7.38 percent.
The two sides have imposed tariffs on $360 billion in two-way trade since last year. But Trump and Chinese leader Xi Jinping agreed to a truce in December to refrain from further escalation.
The US side visited Beijing last week for talks that Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin described as “productive”. 
Trump and Xi would likely hold a summit to seal any deal.
Trump says he wants to reduce the huge US trade deficit with China, which in 2018 totalled $378.73 billion with services trade included.
Besides a greater opening of the Chinese market to US goods, Trump is pressing for structural changes such as Beijing ending its alleged practice of forcing US companies that operate in China to share their technology.
Trump is also demanding that China halt intellectual property theft and subsidies to state-owned companies.
The US president has insisted throughout the process that he will not accept a watered-down trade accord. And his administration warned recently that trade talks could not simply go on forever.
 Resumption of trade war? 
For now, the Trump administration insists that the trade war has left the US economy unscathed, unlike the Chinese economy, which last year posted its slowest growth in nearly 20 years.
Trump asserted that so far the tariffs he imposed on Chinese goods “are partially responsible” for the robust US economy, which in the first quarter grew at an annual rate of 3.2 percent.
But many economists are worried about the longer term effects on the US economy.
Some US manufacturers who import Chinese products that are subject to tariffs are already complaining of higher costs. And economists warn that US consumers will end up paying more for everyday items.
So far, the Chinese side in the talks has agreed for China to buy more US products, mainly in the farm and energy sectors.
But one major obstacle to reaching a final deal continues to be a mechanism for enforcing any accord that is agreed upon.
The Trump administration says it has seen promises and commitments ignored in the past, so this time it will not sign a deal unless it features measures that will allow Washington to verify that China is keeping its word.
Beijing is pressing for the US to lift the tariffs it has imposed, which Washington is evidently not willing to do.
Vice President Mike Pence said Friday that Trump is prepared to impose even more tariffs if no deal is reached.
“The manner in which tariffs would come off is going to be a part of the enforcement mechanism and all of that is the subject of negotiations as we talk,” Pence told CNBC.
Trump’s chief negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, told the Senate Finance Committee in March that America must keep open the option of raising tariffs on Chinese imports as a way to be sure China complies with the trade deal the two sides are working to complete.
US President Donald Trump speaks during the 9th Shale Insight Conference at the David L. Lawrence Convention Center on October 23, 2019, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
The problem? Colorado lies well within the United States, though its large southern neighbour New Mexico does border Mexico.
“You know why we are going to win New Mexico? Because they want safety on their border,” Trump said during a speech in Pittsburgh.
“And we are building a wall on the border of New Mexico, and we are building a wall in Colorado,” he continued. “We are building a beautiful wall, a big one that really works, that you can’t get over, you can’t get under.”
“And we are building a wall in Texas, and we are not building a wall in Kansas, but they get the benefit of the walls that we just mentioned,” he added.
Building a wall on the southern border with Mexico was one of the signature promises of Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, but Congress has refused to pay for its construction.
Politicians and social media users reacted to Trump’s comment with bafflement and mockery.
“Well, this is awkward… Colorado doesn’t border Mexico,” tweeted the state’s Governor Jared Polis.
“Good thing Colorado now offers free full-day kindergarten so our kids can learn basic geography.”
Democratic Senator Patrick Leahy tweeted a map showing a new international border drawn around New Mexico and a line obscuring the first half of the state’s name so that it reads: Mexico.
Trump later tweeted he had spoken of building a wall in Colorado “kiddingly”, and “referred to people in the very packed auditorium, from Colorado & Kansas, getting the benefit of the Border Wall!”
"The US stands ready to assist Brazil in efforts to combat fires in the Amazon," National Security Council spokesman Garrett Marquis tweeted late Wednesday. 
But the Trump administration prefers a plan that includes a discussion with Brazil's government, he said. 
"We didn't agree to a G7 initiative that failed to include consultations w/@jairbolsonaro. The most constructive way to assist w/ Brazil's ongoing efforts is in coordination w/ the Brazilian Gov."
Bolsonaro has repeatedly clashed with European leaders, especially France's President Emmanuel Macron, over Brazil's handling of the Amazon crisis.
Bolsonaro at first rejected the G7's offer, saying on Tuesday that he would be willing to accept the aid only if Macron withdrew his "insults," before changing his mind to say Brazil would accept foreign aid on the condition that it controlled the money.
But later on Wednesday, the South American leader fired a fresh salvo, accusing France and Germany of "buying" Brazil's national sovereignty and throwing into doubt whether his country was still open to accepting the aid funds.
Trump, who met with Bolsonaro at the White House in March, tweeted his "full and complete support" for the Brazilian president Tuesday and praised him for his "very hard" work on the Amazon crisis. 
Macron has accused Bolsonaro of lying to him about his commitments on climate change and vowed to block the EU-Mercosur trade deal involving Brazil that took decades to negotiate.
Although about 60 percent of the Amazon is located in Brazil, the vast forest also spreads over parts of either other countries or territories in South America. 
“I know so many people from Iran, these are great people, it has a chance to be a great country, with the same leadership,” Trump said at a press conference in Tokyo where he is on a state visit.
“We’re not looking for regime change, I just want to make that clear. We’re looking for no nuclear weapons.”
“I’m not looking to hurt Iran at all,” added Trump.
The United States on Friday said it was deploying 1,500 additional troops to the Middle East to counter “credible threats” from Tehran, the latest step in a series of military escalations.
Tensions have been rising between Washington and Tehran since Trump’s decision last year to withdraw from an international nuclear deal with Iran and reimpose sanctions on the oil producer.
The US president reiterated Monday his criticism of that “horrible Iran deal” but said he was open to new negotiations.
“I think we’ll make a deal,” he said at the press conference alongside Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Hours earlier, Trump had insisted: “I do believe that Iran would like to talk, and if they’d like to talk, we’d like to talk also.”
Trump sounded a similarly conciliatory tone on North Korea, a key topic of his discussions in Japan, which views Pyongyang as a major threat.
The US leader, who has had two rounds of talks with North Korea’s Kim Jong Un, described him as a “very smart” man who knew he needed to denuclearise.
“He knows that with nuclear… only bad can happen. He is a very smart man, he gets it well,” said Trump, who repeated that North Korea has “tremendous economic potential”.
And he once again dismissed missile launches earlier this month by Pyongyang that National Security Advisor John Bolton has said were a violation of UN resolutions.
“My people think it could have been a violation… I view it as a man who perhaps wants to get attention,” Trump said.
Abe reiterated his willingness to meet with Kim himself, in particular, to raise the issue of Japanese citizens kidnapped by Pyongyang, and said Trump backed his push to hold direct talks.
In addition to North Korea, Trump and Abe have been focused on trade, with Washington and Tokyo locked in negotiations to reduce what the US president calls an “unbelievably large trade imbalance”.
Trump has said a final deal will not come until after Japan’s upper house elections in July, but said he expected an agreement that would “benefit both of our economies”.
He also said that Japan has “just announced its intent to purchase 105 brand new F35 stealth aircraft”.
“This purchase would give Japan the largest F35 fleet of any US ally,” Trump added.
The US president said he there was a “very good” chance of clinching a trade deal with China, despite recent retaliatory measures between the world’s top economies.
“I think sometime in the future, China and the US will have a great trade deal and we look forward to that,” Trump said.
US First Lady Melania Trump addresses the B’More Youth Summit in Baltimore, Maryland, on November 26, 2019. The purpose of the summit is to promote healthy choices and educate students about the dangers of opioid use. NICHOLAS KAMM / AFP
First ladies are usually spared the rougher edges of US politics and Melania Trump has been no exception, despite the bruising nature of her husband’s presidency.
Boos and shrieking erupted from the audience of mostly middle and high school students when she walked on stage at the Baltimore Youth Summit on Opioid Awareness.
Loud talking continued in the audience as she began her brief speech, in which she wished the children “a healthy and drug-free life.” There were more boos, as well as cheers, at the end.
The president provoked a furious backlash in July when he took to Twitter to bash the historic port city of 600,000 people as a “disgusting, rat and rodent infested mess” unfit for humans.
Democratic lawmakers described the provocative attacks as racist while Baltimore Mayor Bernard Young said the remarks were “completely unacceptable.”
The president didn’t take up an offer to visit Baltimore amid the outcry, but was himself the target of booing closer to home in October when he attended a World Series baseball game with the first lady in heavily pro-Democrat Washington.
Trump said a meeting with Xi has been “scheduled” during the G20 summit in Japan later this month, and that he expected the Chinese leader to attend.
“We have noticed that the US has repeatedly publicly expressed its expectation that the Chinese and US heads of state will meet during the G20 summit,” foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a regular briefing.
“If there is any news in this regard, we will release it in due time.”
A Trump-Xi meeting would mark a turning point in the bruising trade dispute between the world’s two biggest economies, which has spooked markets worldwide and sparked worries about the global economy.
Negotiations to resolve the dispute stalled last month after Washington increased tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese imports, sparking retaliation from Beijing.
Trump told CNBC on Monday that he would be “surprised” if Xi did not attend the meeting.
“I think he’s going, I haven’t heard that he’s not,” the US president told the channel.
Asked if a no-show by Xi would lead to tariffs kicking in on a further $300 billion in Chinese imports, Trump said: “Yes it would.”
Trump has been trying to strongarm China into fundamental changes in trade and economic policies that he argues have for decades put the United States at an unfair disadvantage.
Beijing, meanwhile, has said that while it is willing to negotiate, it will not be bullied into compromising on its core principles.
“China does not want a trade war,” Geng said. “If the US is willing to negotiate on an equal footing, our doors are always open.”
“If the US insists on escalating trade frictions, we will resolutely respond and fight until the end.”
King Salman invited Gulf leaders and Arab League member states to two emergency summits in Mecca on May 30 to discuss recent “aggressions and their consequences”, the kingdom’s official SPA news agency reported Saturday.
The announcement came days after mysterious sabotage attacks against several tankers in highly sensitive Gulf waters and drone attacks on a crude pipeline by Iran-aligned Yemen rebels, which Riyadh claimed were carried out on Iranian orders.
The United States has also deployed an aircraft carrier and bombers to the Gulf over alleged threats from Iran.
Saudi Arabia’s minister of state for foreign affairs, Adel al-Jubeir, said Sunday his country does not want to go to war with Iran but would defend itself.
Saudi Arabia “does not want a war, is not looking for it and will do everything to prevent it,” he said.
“But at the same time, if the other side chooses war, the kingdom will respond with strength and determination to defend itself and its interests.”
The kingdom’s regional allies welcomed the Saudi invitation.
The UAE’s foreign ministry said the current “critical circumstances” require a unified Arab and Gulf stance.
The meetings will be a “significant opportunity for the countries of the region to achieve their aspirations for establishing peace and stability,” it said.
 Sabotage probe ongoing 
Four ships including two Saudi oil tankers were damaged in mysterious sabotage attacks last Sunday off the UAE’s Fujairah, near the Strait of Hormuz — a vital maritime route for oil exports which Iran has threatened to close in the event of a war.
That incident was followed by drone strikes Tuesday by Yemen’s Iran-aligned rebels on a major Saudi oil pipeline built as an alternative export route if the Strait of Hormuz were to be closed.
Jubeir said the UAE was leading the probe into the damaged oil tankers but added that “we have some indications and we will make the announcements once the investigations are completed”.
The Emirates has said three Western countries — the US, France and Norway — would also be part of the investigation, along with the UAE and Saudi Arabia. 
Neither of the two Gulf states, both close allies of the United States, have given details on the exact nature of the ship attacks.
Despite international scepticism, the US government has cited increasing threats from Iran, a long-time enemy of both the US and its regional allies, including Israel and Saudi Arabia.
SPA said Sunday that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had spoken with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo about enhancing security in the region. 
The US has already strengthened its military presence in the region, deploying several of strategic B-52 bombers in response to alleged Iranian threats.
US President Donald Trump last week predicted that Iran would “soon” want to negotiate.
There was an immediate backlash to Trump’s tweet in which he claimed that impeachment was unfair and stripping him of his legal rights.
“All Republicans must remember what they are witnessing here — a lynching. But we will WIN!,” Trump tweeted.
Kristen Clarke, president of the National Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, said she was “sickened to see Trump’s gross misappropriation of this term today.”
Clarke said that 4,743 people were lynched in the United States between 1882 and 1968, of which 3,446 were African Americans.
“Lynchings were crimes against humanity and an ugly part of our nation’s history of racial violence,” she said.
“It’s beyond shameful to use the word ‘lynching’ to describe being held accountable for your actions,” said Democratic presidential candidate Julian Castro.
Trump is being investigated for possible impeachment in the Democratic-led House of Representatives over his alleged abuse of office. He is counting on the Republican-dominated Senate to acquit him if the House does vote to impeach.
WASHINGTON, DC – NOVEMBER 14: Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell testifies during a hearing before the House Budget Committee November 14, 2019 on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC. The committee held a hearing on “The Economic Outlook: The View from the Federal Reserve.”   Alex Wong/Getty Images/AFP
Powell attended the meeting, which comes amid an unprecedented campaign of public attacks on the central bank, at the invitation of the president, and was joined by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, the Fed said in a statement.
Trump, who has lambasted Powell in harsh, personal terms over monetary policy, tweeted that the meeting was “good & cordial,” adding that “everything was discussed” including interest rates, inflation, foreign exchange and the Fed’s balance sheet policies.
In a second tweet Monday evening, however, Trump said that during the meeting he protested “that our Fed Rate is set too high relative to the interest rates of other competitor countries.”
“Too strong a Dollar hurting manufacturers & growth!” he added.
The Fed said Powell’s comments were consistent with last week’s congressional testimony and did not concern “expectations for monetary policy,” except to say it will depend entirely on new economic information.
“Powell said that he and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee will set monetary policy, as required by law, to support maximum employment and stable prices and will make those decisions based solely on careful, objective and non-political analysis,” the statement said.
Powell has long insisted policymakers disregard politics when setting policy. 
But Trump has repeatedly hammered the central bank, calling policymakers “boneheads” and “clueless,” and accusing them of mistakenly raising interest rates in 2018 and being too slow to lower them this year.
The Fed’s policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee has cut interest rates three times this year, saying that Trump’s trade war, in particular, poses a danger to the economy, which has slowed since the start of the year.
But, after the most recent cut, Powell said last month the central bank will hold its fire for now as officials wait to see how the economy progresses.
Trump and Powell had last met in February, over dinner at the White House.
A livid Trump abruptly shut down a White House meeting with Democratic leaders Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, announcing he could not deal with them on policy until “phony investigations” are brought to a close.
The clash marked a dramatic escalation in Trump’s war of words with congressional opponents seeking to bring him to account for what they say is presidential wrongdoing.
Trump’s ire was seemingly triggered by House Speaker Pelosi, his nemesis in Congress, who declared following an emergency meeting with lawmakers earlier Wednesday: “We believe that the president of the United States is engaged in a cover up.”
“I don’t do cover-ups,” Trump shot back at a hastily arranged Rose Garden press event, moments after the aborted talks.
“So get these phony investigations over with,” Trump said — warning a failure to do so would spell gridlock on issues like fixing the country’s infrastructure, on which the two sides had hoped for a breakthrough on Wednesday.
A two-year investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller into Russia’s interference in the 2016 US election concluded there was no hard evidence Trump’s campaign colluded with Moscow. 
But the prosecutor said he could not rule clearly on whether Trump obstructed justice, leaving it to the Trump-appointed attorney general, Bill Barr, to declare there was no obstruction.
The Democrats’ decision to pursue the grey areas of the investigation — and their open discussion of whether to pursue the politically perilous process of impeachment — has enraged Trump.
“PRESIDENTIAL HARASSMENT!” he tweeted Wednesday, as he stepped up his attacks on the probes.
Any pretense of cooperation on policy issues evaporated as Trump and Pelosi locked political horns, with the issue of impeachment inching toward center stage in Washington.
Speaking after she left the White House, Pelosi charged that Trump could have committed an “impeachable” offense by ignoring congressional subpoenas connected to the Mueller probe, likening it to the “cover-up” that brought down former president Richard Nixon.
“This president is obstructing justice and he’s engaged in a cover-up,” she said. “And that could be an impeachable offense.”
– Pursuing gray areas –
Democrats argue that Barr is protecting the president, in part by refusing to comply with congressional subpoenas — although on Wednesday the House Intelligence Committee’s chairman said the Justice Department had agreed to begin honoring a subpoena for material related to Mueller’s probe.
Despite her accusation of a cover-up, Pelosi has been mindful of the politically-charged nature of an impeachment move ahead of a 2020 presidential election, especially one that is likely to fail in the Republican-led Senate.
She has argued in favor of keeping the focus on educating the public through the court process and congressional probes to “get the truth and facts to the American people,” rather than leaping to impeachment.
The issue has divided Democrats for months. Even as some in Congress — and several Democratic presidential contenders — are eager to assert its historical oversight powers as a check against the executive, there is a concern the tactic could backfire, energizing Trump’s base ahead of the election.
“He’s really trying to goad Congress into impeaching him,” congressman Peter Welch, a member of Democratic leadership, told CNN. 
Pelosi and Schumer meanwhile offered their own scathing descriptions of Wednesday’s heated scene.
Schumer called the dramatic cancellation of the meeting “a pre-planned excuse” and said “what happened in the White House makes your jaw drop.”
Likewise suggesting Trump manufactured the row to avoid committing to an enormously expensive infrastructure bill, Pelosi said: “I pray for the president of the United States.”






The longtime Trump admirer who once said he was ready to “take a bullet” for Trump is awaited at the federal prison in Otisville, New York by 2:00 pm (1800 GMT).
He was sentenced to three years in prison in December, after admitting to having paid hush money during the 2016 election to two women who said they had had affairs with Trump — in violation of electoral laws — having committed tax fraud and having lied to Congress.
The father of two children in their twenties, Cohen had hoped until the last moment that his sentence would be reduced, offering information to investigators that could compromise Trump and his family, including over the Russia investigation.
But even if Special Counsel Robert Mueller referred to the ex-attorney more than a hundred times in his report on Russian meddling in the US elections, prosecutors have not budged on Cohen’s sentence.
 Why Cohen? 
The child of a Holocaust survivor and a nurse will become one of just two close aides of the president jailed for a lengthy period of time after Paul Manafort, Trump’s ex-campaign manager who was sentenced to 7.5 years of prison.
Cohen worked for the Trump Organization for a decade and insists that all reprehensible acts took place at the behest of the president, who the ex-attorney claims would be ready to cling to power even if he loses his bid for a second term in 2020.
“How come I’m the only one?” Cohen asked in an interview with The New Yorker.
“I didn’t work for the campaign. I worked for him. And how come I’m the one that’s going to prison? I’m not the one that slept with the porn star,” he added, referring to Stormy Daniels, one of the women who received hush money.
Cohen’s lawyer Lanny Davis said Friday that the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr, should have gone to prison since he “signed hush money checks.”
For the American president and his allies, Cohen’s prison sentence has the taste of payback after the one-time attorney turned on his boss.
Trump called him “weak” and a “rat” ready to make up any lies necessary to avoid prison.
 Final statements 
Cohen, who has been disbarred and is running out of cash, has not said his last word.
This weekend, he told reporters following him in Manhattan as he spent his last moments of freedom with his son Jake, a student in Miami, that he would make some final statements Monday before going behind bars.
When he spoke to lawmakers earlier this year, Cohen mentioned plans to write a book and have his experiences made into a film.
In doing so, he would be following the example of Richard Nixon’s ex-lawyer John Dean, who pleaded guilty for having bought the silence of the Watergate scandal burglars, and then wrote a book about his experience.
The Otisville prison conditions should allow Cohen to spend at least some time on such projects.
He is due to be held in the detention center’s low-security “camp,” which holds detainees who are not considered to be dangerous, including many other white-collar criminals.
Practising Jews who are sentenced often request to be placed at Otisville because it provides kosher meals and detainees are allowed to follow the Shabbat day of rest.
The 120-some prisoners of this wing of the center can use libraries, as well as basketball and tennis courts while wearing their beige uniforms.
Can Cohen hope for an expedited release for good behaviour?
“Because Congress eliminated parole in 1987, the best he can hope for is a 15 percent reduction off his sentence for ‘good behaviour,'” said criminal defence attorney Harlan Protass.
“He’ll also likely spend the last six months of his sentence in a halfway house, like where former Congressman Anthony Weiner is now.”
Xi’s two-day visit, which ended Friday, will also serve the Chinese leader in his complicated relationship with Trump, as they prepare to hold talks on their trade war at the G20 summit in Japan next week.
Months after Trump declared that he and Kim had fallen “in love”, their nuclear talks faltered as their second summit in Vietnam in February ended without an agreement.
Trump has also repeatedly called Xi his “friend”, but their own negotiations to end the US-China tariffs war broke down last month.
With Trump’s relationship with Kim on the rocks, Xi has found an opening.
After the North Korean leader travelled to China four times in the past year, Xi has finally reciprocated, declaring in North Korea’s official newspaper that the friendship between their nations was “irreplaceable”.
Kim gave Xi a lavish welcome, inviting him to the “Mass Games”, an epic music and dance show in a packed stadium that featured the song “I love you China” and a giant portrait of Xi.
“(Xi) wants to use his visit to Pyongyang to demonstrate to President Trump that China’s role on the Korean Peninsula is indispensable,” said Bonnie Glaser, senior adviser for Asia at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
“And if Xi can persuade Kim to resume talks with the US, he hopes that Trump will ease up pressure on trade,” Glaser told AFP.
Glaser noted that Trump himself made the link between a trade deal and China helping with North Korea.
But Trump has also seen Xi as a potentially negative influence on Kim, calling him a “world-class poker player” last year, as he noted a change of attitude by the North Korean leader after meeting the Chinese president.
 Leverage 
In talks on Thursday, Xi told Kim that he was “willing to strengthen coordination and cooperation” with North Korea and other parties, and play a “positive and constructive role” in achieving denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula, according to Chinese state media.
Ahn Chan-il, a North Korean defector and researcher in Seoul, said Xi is using North Korea as leverage in his own confrontation with the United States.
“Xi and North Korea… are saying the Beijing-Pyongyang alliance forged in blood will not be affected by Trump, regardless of any economic incentives to effect a change,” he said.
China, which fought alongside the North in the Korean War, remains Pyongyang’s main diplomatic and economic backer despite tensions over the nuclear issue.
Lu Chao, a North Korean expert at China’s Liaoning Academy of social sciences, said Beijing “will certainly play a major role in mediating the return of the DPRK and the United States to the negotiating table.”
But Lu said it was wrong to think that China would use North Korea as a bargaining chip — a notion that the Chinese foreign ministry has also rejected.
 No Midas Touch 
Shi Yinhong, professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing, said ties between China and North Korea have not been “fully repaired” just yet, as China still enforces UN sanctions.
“With the improvement of Sino-DPRK relations, China can restore some influence on the DPRK, but the main thing is that Kim Jong Un makes his own decisions,” Shi said.
In a sign that the neighbours are not always in sync, North Korean media did not carry comments by Kim reported by Chinese state broadcaster CCTV, which quoted him as saying that he was “willing to be patient” in the talks with the US, but wanted “the parties concerned” to meet him halfway.
The state-run China Daily sought to play down Xi’s influence on North Korea.
“The world may hope that the Chinese leader has the magic touch that can turn stone to gold,” the newspaper said in an editorial.
“But it is unrealistic to expect that Xi can solve all the peninsula issues with a two-day visit — even if Beijing has always been the most reliable and considerate partner to Pyongyang.”
Asked on NBC’s “Meet the Press” whether he thought impeachment was good politics for him, Trump replied, “I think I win the election easier.”
The president repeated his longstanding allegation that the FBI’s counterintelligence investigation into his 2016 campaign was illegal.
“I was spied on. What they did to me was illegal. It was illegal on the other side. I did nothing wrong,” he said in the previously recorded interview.
“So impeachment’s a very unfair thing because nothing that I did was wrong. And if you look at the Mueller report, there was no collusion. This was all about collusion.”
The Democrats are split over whether Trump should be impeached after the Mueller Report into Russian interference in the 2016 election outlined numerous contacts between his campaign and Russians, as well as evidence that the president tried on several occasions to stymie the investigation. 
While many of the candidates for the Democratic nomination are pro-impeachment, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has argued that it would be a risky move without an “ironclad” case and bipartisan support.
If the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives were to vote on formal impeachment charges, the Republican-held Senate would decide whether to convict, which requires an unlikely two-thirds majority.
– ‘I don’t like losing‘ –
Trump told “Meet the Press” Pelosi was staving off growing impeachment calls from within the Democratic caucus because she agreed with his assessment that it would harm their prospects in 2020. 
“I think she feels that I will win much easier,” Trump said. “I mean, I’ve been told that by many people.”
Former special counsel Robert Mueller spent nearly two years investigating Russian election interference and possible involvement by Trump and his inner circle. 
He concluded that there wasn’t sufficient proof of a criminal conspiracy but found that Trump’s campaign welcomed and expected to benefit electorally from information stolen and released through Russian efforts.
Trump would not commit to addressing foreign election interference with Russian President Vladimir Putin when they meet at the G20 summit in Osaka later this month. 
Asked by “Meet the Press” host Chuck Todd if he would directly bring up the issue with Putin, Trump said, apparently sarcastically: “I may if you’d like me to do it, I’ll do that.” 
In a wide-ranging interview Trump said he was not prepared to lose his reelection bid and revealed that former vice president Joe Biden was his preferred opponent.
“No I’m probably not too prepared to lose. I don’t like losing. I haven’t lost very much in my life,” he said.
– ‘Fantastic job‘ –
He offered rare praise for 2016 rival Hillary Clinton, saying she was a “great candidate” and that he would rather run against Biden than face her again. 
“Sleepy Joe. He’s sleepy. She was not sleepy,” he said.
Asked about a roiling controversy over substandard conditions in holding centers for migrant children at the southern border, Trump blamed former president Barack Obama for the Trump administration’s family separations policy and said Democrats were holding up humanitarian aid. 
“We’re doing a fantastic job under the circumstances,” Trump said.
“What we’ve done is we’ve created, we’ve, we’ve ended separation. You know, under President Obama you had separation. I was the one that ended it,” he added.
On foreign policy, Trump declined to commit to ordering the FBI to investigate the murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi and possible links to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
UN special rapporteur Agnes Callamard has said there is “credible evidence” to warrant investigation and financial sanctions against the prince over Khashoggi’s murder in the Saudi embassy in Istanbul last October.
Trump suggested that other Middle Eastern countries such as Iran had committed worse crimes and that an investigation would be harmful for America’s business interests.






“We stand with France today and offer our assistance in the rehabilitation of this irreplaceable symbol of Western civilization. Vive la France!” Trump’s spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said in a statement.
Sanders called Notre Dame, which was heavily damaged in the blaze, an “iconic structure” that “has served as a spiritual home for almost a millennium.”
The statement called France the oldest US ally and said “we remember with grateful hearts the tolling of Notre Dame’s bells on September 12, 2001, in solemn recognition of the tragic September 11th attacks on American soil. Those bells will sound again.”
The White House’s measured words contrasted with Trump’s shocked, off-the-cuff reaction on Monday, when he asked whether the French fire services shouldn’t be bringing water tankers to try and extinguish the blaze from the air.
“Must act quickly!” he tweeted as French firefighters scrambled to try and control the inferno.
French authorities pointedly responded in a tweet written in English that “all means are being used, except for water-bombing aircraft,” because the force of falling water could destroy the ancient building.
Later, Lieutenant-Colonel Michael Bernier, a fire chief who speaks for the national civil defense organization, reacted in less diplomatic fashion, calling Trump’s suggestion “risible”.






The departure of Coats — who has, however, sought to avoid direct confrontation with Trump during his time as Director of National Intelligence — is the latest high-profile exit from the mercurial president’s turnover-plagued administration.
Trump tweeted that Coats will leave on August 15, saying he plans to nominate Representative John Ratcliffe of Texas, who serves on the House intelligence, judiciary and homeland security committees, to replace him.
“A former U.S. Attorney, John will lead and inspire greatness for the Country he loves,” Trump wrote, also thanking Coats “for his great service to our Country.”
If Ratcliffe’s nomination is approved, Trump will get an intelligence chief who is more in synch with his views.
In Congress, he has been a staunch defender of Trump and has criticized two of the president’s nemeses, former FBI chief James Comey and special counsel Robert Mueller.
Ratcliffe has also said he has “seen no evidence” that Russian election meddling helped bring Trump to office, has backed the president’s assertion that court-approved surveillance of his campaign amounted to spying, and has supported his hawkish policy on Iran.
The choice of Ratcliffe was hailed by various Republicans — including House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who tweeted that he “will bring strength and accountability in his new role” — but drew criticism from other quarters.
“Our Director of National Intelligence should be above partisan politics, speak truth to power, and resist Trump’s abuses of authority. John Ratcliffe doesn’t fit that bill,” Democratic presidential hopeful Elizabeth Warren tweeted.
Coats has not seen eye-to-eye with Trump on a range of issues while serving as the official who oversees and coordinates the CIA, NSA and other US espionage bodies.
Russia, N. Korea, IS 
He backed the US intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia interfered in the 2016 election that brought Trump to office — something the president was long loath to acknowledge.
The intelligence chief also disagreed with Trump’s decision to hold two hours of closed-door talks with Russian President Vladmir Putin in Helsinki in July 2018 with no one else present but interpreters.
“If he had asked me how that ought to be conducted, I would have suggested a different way,” Coats said.
He acknowledged he was not informed about the contents of the talks, saying three days after they were held: “I don’t know what happened in that meeting.”
Trump’s attempts to get North Korea to give up its nuclear arsenal via talks with Pyongyang’s leader Kim Jong Un was another point of disagreement.
“We continue to assess that North Korea is unlikely to give up all of its nuclear weapons and production capabilities, even as it seeks to negotiate partial denuclearization steps to obtain key US and international concessions,” Coats said in the annual “Worldwide Threat Assessment” report earlier this year.
North Korea’s leaders see having a nuclear weapons capability as “critical to regime survival,” Coats said.
Trump, however, has taken the view that Kim is willing to give up his nuclear arms.
The report also warned that the Islamic State (IS) group — despite Trump’s assertions to the contrary — was hardly vanquished and could easily rise again in a vacuum left by departing US forces, resuming global attacks and restarting its propaganda machine.
IS “still commands thousands of fighters in Iraq and Syria, and it maintains eight branches, more than a dozen networks, and thousands of dispersed supporters around the world, despite significant leadership and territorial losses,” Coats said.
Coats’s departure will be the latest in a long series of exits by top Trump administration officials, including defense secretary Jim Mattis, homeland security chief Kirstjen Nielsen, chief of staff John Kelly and top diplomat Rex Tillerson.






RIVERDALE, GA – NOVEMBER 16: Colin Kaepernick exits the stadium following his NFL workout held at Charles R. Drew High School on November 16, 2019 in Riverdale, Georgia.   Carmen Mandato/Getty Images/AFP
The 32-year-old former San Francisco 49ers star ditched the NFL’s planned private workout for a throwing session at an Atlanta-area high school, showing top-level accuracy and arm strength while making his case for a comeback before scouts from eight NFL clubs.
“I appreciate you all coming out. It means a lot to me,” Kaepernick said. “My biggest thing with everything today is making sure we had transparency with what went on. We weren’t getting that elsewhere so we came out here.”
The NFL planned a closed session for Kaepernick at the Atlanta Falcons training facility with scouts from 25 NFL teams attending and plans to send a video of the drills to all 32 NFL clubs.
But Kaepernick switched plans about 30 minutes before the scheduled start, saying he had concerns over a liability waiver the league wanted him to sign as well as not having a public workout.
Kaepernick’s representatives plan to send a video of the workout to every NFL club.
Eric Reid, a former 49ers teammate who has supported him through his forced absence, tweeted: “There’s no way we would allow the NFL to control the narrative of Colin’s workout,” and added, “We already knew Colin’s arm talent was elite. Some doubted and now you have proof.”
Kaepernick took no questions but thanked scouts from several teams who attended his session.
“I came out here to show you in front of everybody we have nothing to hide,” Kaepernick said. “I’ve been ready. I’m staying ready. I continue to be ready.”
Kaepernick was an NFL star in 2016 when he began kneeling for pre-game playings of the US national anthem as a way of protesting racial inequality and social injustice. He opted out of his 49ers contract for free agency in 2017 but found no takers.
Later in 2017, US President Donald Trump began attacking NFL players who kneeled for the anthem, saying they should be fired and calling any such player a “son of a bitch.”
Trump painted the protest as an insult to the flag and the nation rather than about the issues Kaepernick had championed.
– ‘I’m ready to go’ –
Nearly three seasons have come and gone with no one giving Kaepernick a look.
“I’ve been ready for three years. I have been denied for three years. We all know why,” Kaepernick said.
“We’re waiting for 32 owners, 32 teams, (NFL Commissioner) Roger Goodell, all of them to stop running, stop running from the truth and stop running from the people. We are ready to play, ready to go anywhere.
“The ball is in their court because I’m ready to go.”
Kaepernick reached a settlement with the NFL over claims that owners were improperly keeping him out of the league when many teams over the past three seasons have needed a top passer due to injury or poor performance.
The NFL saw its workout as a way to provide every club an update on his skills without risking a backlash should a lone club give him a tryout.
“We are disappointed that Colin did not appear for his workout,” an NFL statement said.
“Today’s session was designed to give Colin what he has consistently said he wants — an opportunity to show his football readiness and desire to return to the NFL.”
Kaepernick attorney Ben Meiselas and agent Jeff Nalley said in a statement they wanted a “transparent and open process” but “from the outset, the NFL league office has not provided one.”
The NFL said it sent Kaepernick a standard waiver to sign while his agent said the contract included employment issues and terms his attorney felt should not be included.
The NFL said it “made considerable effort to work cooperatively with Colin’s representatives,” including an agreement to certain receivers for his session and going over the planned drills for its private workout.
“Colin’s decision has no effect on his status in the league,” the NFL said. “He remains an unrestricted free agent eligible to sign with any club.”






(FILES) In this file photo taken on October 17, 2019 President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker looks on as he addresses a press conference at a European Union Summit at European Union Headquarters in Brussels. – The president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, will undergo surgery on November 11 to treat an aneurysm, members of his inner circle told AFP on October 31, 2019. (Photo by Kenzo TRIBOUILLARD / AFP)
President Donald Trump’s administration has been threatening since last year to impose tariffs on auto imports to defend the US automaking sector, a symbol of American manufacturing.
After postponing such measures in May, Trump is due to decide by mid-November whether to impose the supplemental tariffs on cars built in EU countries — a step particularly feared by the big German automakers. 
But in an interview with a German newspaper, Juncker said he was “fully informed” on the issue and that Trump “will not do it”.
“Trump will criticise a little, but there will not be tariffs on cars,” he told the Suddeutsche Zeitung published Friday.
If adopted, it would mark the latest escalation of the trade conflict between Brussels and Washington, coming only weeks after the US imposed new punitive taxes on European products worth $7.5 billion. 
That increase came in mid-October, four days after the World Trade Organization (WTO) gave Washington a green light to take retaliatory trade measures against the EU over its subsidies to European aerospace giant Airbus. 
The United States also imposed heightened tariffs last year on EU-made steel and aluminium products.
On November 3, US Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross suggested Washington may not need to impose new customs taxes on auto imports.
“We’ve had very good conversations with our European friends, with our Japanese friends, with our Korean friends,” Ross said.
US President Donald Trump is to authorize wide-ranging sanctions aimed at dissuading Turkey from further offensive military action in northeastern Syria, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Friday.
Addressing reporters at the White House, Mnuchin said Trump was poised to sign an executive order approving “very significant new sanctions authorities” — but that the United States was not yet “activating” the measures.
“These are very powerful sanctions. We hope we don’t have to use them but we can shut down the Turkish economy if we need to,” Mnuchin said.
The punitive measures, Mnuchin said, can be targeted at any person associated with the Turkish government.
The sanctions announcement came hours after the Pentagon blasted Turkey for its three-day old assault on Kurdish-led forces in northeast Syria, warning of “serious consequences” for Ankara in the strongest US statement yet against an assault that Trump had initially appeared to greenlight.
“The president is concerned about the ongoing military offensive, and potential targeting of civilians, civilian infrastructure, ethnic or religious minorities,” Mnuchin said.
“Also the president wants to make very clear it is imperative that Turkey not allow even a single ISIS fighter to escape.”
A statement from the Treasury said Trump’s executive order would give it the “authority to designate individuals and entities of the Government of Turkey involved in human rights abuses or actions leading to the further deterioration of peace, security, and stability in northeastern Syria.”
“At the direction of President Trump we will be targeting specific Turkish individuals or departments as needed,” Mnuchin was quoted as saying.
“This is a notice to banks and other parties to be on notice of potential actions.”
“I’m the youngest person. I am a young, vibrant man,” a smiling Trump, age 72, told reporters at the White House when asked how old is too old to serve as commander in chief.
“I look at Joe, I don’t know about him,” he said of Biden, who launched his 2020 presidential bid Thursday with direct attacks on Trump’s character and controversial performance in office.
“I would never say anyone is too old, but I know they’re all making me look very young both in terms of age and I think in terms of energy.”
When Trump was asked how he would beat Biden, whose working-class appeal could help him win back states like Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin that Trump snatched from Democrats in 2016, the president was succinct: “I think we beat him easily.”
Trump is the oldest-ever US president, but he is three and a half years younger than Biden, who is leading the crowded Democratic field of candidates seeking the party’s nomination next year.
The president is also five years younger than Bernie Sanders, the US senator who is second in polling for the Democratic nomination.
Of the 20 Democrats in the running, 10 are under age 50. Three of those are half Biden’s age or younger.
Despite Trump’s assertions of youthful vigor and health, he does have a weight problem.
In February, Trump was declared healthy by his doctor.
The lifelong real estate dealer has confounded health experts with his penchant for junk food and avoidance of strenuous exercise. He weighs 243 pounds (110 kg), his doctor said after an annual examination, which would put him in the category of mildly obese.
US President Donald Trump speaks during a ceremony to present the Medal of Honor to US Army Master Sergeant Matthew Williams at the White House in Washington, DC, on October 30, 2019. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)
One day after a decorated army officer told Congressional investigators he witnessed Trump and a senior diplomat pressure Ukraine, three other State Department officials on Wednesday offered more evidence in testimony that supported the allegations against the US leader.
And the inquiry testimony set dates for three more witnesses, including Trump’s estranged former National Security Advisor John Bolton, who would have had first-hand knowledge of the president’s alleged effort to leverage military aid to Ukraine in exchange for President Volodymyr Zelensky investigating his Democratic rival Joe Biden.
Even before those interviews take place, Democrats proposed rules to formalize the investigation and set its next phase — which would have open evidentiary hearings that Trump or his lawyers could take part in — ahead of drawing up articles of impeachment.
On Wednesday, the House Rules Committee agreed by a party-line vote to put the resolution up for approval before the full House of Representatives on Thursday.
“I didn’t run (for office) to impeach the president,” House Rules Committee Chairman James McGovern said after the vote.
“These are very, very serious matters, and we need a process in place so people know how we’re going to proceed. I think this is a good transparent process.”
Earlier in the day, McGovern said, “There is serious evidence that the president may have violated the constitution.”
Trump: probe is a ‘witch hunt’ 
Trump blasted the investigation as a “witch hunt” and again claimed there was no “quid pro quo” in his dealings with Zelensky.
But Democrats said the evidence was only getting stronger that he did push Ukraine to open investigations into Biden, whose son had ties to a powerful Ukraine energy company.
The impeachment rules will formalize a process Republicans have alleged has no official grounds, but the Democrats comfortable majority in the House is likely to ensure its passage.
“The evidence we have already collected paints the picture of a President who abused his power by using multiple levers of government to press a foreign country to interfere in the 2020 election,” the leaders of the impeachment inquiry said late Tuesday.
“Following in the footsteps of previous impeachment inquiries, the next phase will move from closed depositions to open hearings where the American people will learn firsthand about the President’s misconduct.”
 Aid hold ‘directed by Trump’ 
On Wednesday, State Department diplomat Christopher Anderson, a former aide to the US special representative for Ukraine Kurt Volker, told the inquiry Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani injected himself into Ukrainian policy discussions to demand Kiev open investigations that could aid Trump.
Another former Volker aide, Catherine Croft, said in prepared testimony that Trump’s chief of staff Mick Mulvaney ordered military aid to Ukraine frozen days before a July 25 phone call in which Trump pressured Zelensky to investigate Biden.
“The only reason given was that the order came at the direction of the president,” Croft said.
And in separate testimony, John Sullivan, nominated to be US ambassador to Russia, told a Congressional hearing that Giuliani was part of an effort designed to smear then-ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch, who had reportedly resisted White House efforts to pressure Kiev to investigate Biden.
“Soliciting investigations into a domestic political opponent, I don’t think that would be in accord with our values,” Sullivan told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
 Bolton testimony planned 
The inquiry was to hear Thursday from Tim Morrison, the White House National Security Council’s top Russia expert. Other witnesses have said Morrison had personal knowledge of the efforts to use military aid to pressure Ukraine — the quid pro quo that Trump denies.
Morrison unexpectedly stepped down late Wednesday, with no indications how that might impact his testimony.
“Mr. Morrison has decided to pursue other opportunities — and has been considering doing so for some time,” a senior administration official said.
Two other White House officials, National Security Council lead attorney John Eisenberg and one of his deputies, Michael Ellis, are to testify on November 4.
They would be followed by Bolton on November 7, if he agrees to testify. His testimony could be explosive, given his strained relationship with Trump in September when he left the White House, as the Ukraine allegations first surfaced.
Bolton, other witnesses have said, disagreed strongly with Trump’s tactics and the involvement of Giuliani in Ukraine policy.
The two leaders, like-minded nationalists fond of fiery rallies and skeptical of traditional media, heaped praise on each other in an unusual joint appearance inside a football stadium in Houston.
To the bhangra beats of four drummers in saffron turbans, Trump in his dark suit and Modi in a yellow kurta and vest made a grand entrance with arms clenched together to ecstatic cheers from a crowd estimated by organizers at 50,000.
Trump won his biggest applause when he told the crowd, many wearing the saffron of India’s right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party, “We are committed to protecting innocent civilians from the threat of radical Islamic terrorism.”
Taking the flavor of one of Trump’s own boisterous rallies, Modi later asked the crowd to give a standing ovation to Trump for his stance.
Trump has stood by the Indian leader during controversial decisions this year, including his revocation of autonomy for Muslim-majority Kashmir and his order for jets to enter Pakistani territory in response to a suicide bombing.
With Trump watching in the front row and listening to the translation, Modi made clear reference to rival Pakistan, which controls part of Kashmir and has sought to rally international attention over the Himalayan territory.
Modi said he was seeking equal status and development for Kashmir, adding that his actions were “causing discomfort to some people unable to manage their own country” and who “nurture terrorism.”
“These people have put their hatred of India at the center of their political agenda,” Modi said.
India has also faced strong criticism from human rights experts for shutting down virtually all internet and cellular communications across much of Kashmir.
Protesters gathered outside of the NRG Stadium with placards and shirts that said, “Free Kashmir” and accused Modi of violating religious freedom — a cause frequently evoked by the Trump administration.
 Gentle critique 
The event is billed as the largest gathering by a foreign leader other than the pope in the United States.
Hoping to ensure that it remains bipartisan, organizers also invited prominent Democrats.
Steny Hoyer, the second-top Democrat in the House of Representatives, pledged that both major US parties wanted better relations with India — but gently voiced concern.
Citing India’s apostle of non-violence Mahatma Gandhi, Hoyer pointed to “respect for secularism and human rights” as a founding value of the world’s largest democracy.
“Americans and Indians must strive to make our promises and aspirations a reality for all our citizens,” he said with Modi at his side.
Trump grinned broadly while Modi heaped praise on him, even invoking the president’s “Make America Great Again” slogan as he hailed the state of the US economy.
Electoral prospects 
But Indian-Americans voted overwhelmingly for his rival Hillary Clinton in 2016, despite high-profile Republicans in the community such as Nikki Haley, Trump’s first ambassador to the United Nations.
Houston, one of the most ethnically diverse cites in the United States, is ground zero in the Democratic Party’s inroads in Texas, a must-win state for Trump next year.
Speaking of his record as if on the campaign, Trump made no mention of many Indians’ concerns over US visa policy but highlighted his efforts to turn back undocumented immigrants from Central America.
“We are going to take care of our Indian-American citizens before we take care of illegal immigrants that want to pour into our country,” Trump said.
Hardly known for his celebrations of ethnic diversity, Trump said to Indian-Americans, “We love you.”
“You enrich our culture, you uphold our values, you uplift our communities and you are truly proud to be American and we are proud to have you as Americans,” he said.
Sporting a matching vest and sari in yellow embroidery from Modi’s home state of Gujarat as well as caps in the Indian tricolor, Bhavin Parikh of Sacramento, California said he and his wife Shipti wanted to show their support.
“We are big fans of Modi and what he is doing for India and wanted to show our support,” Parikh said.He called the gathering “historic” due to Trump’s presence. But he demurred on whether the gathering also indicated backing for Trump.
“It is not a question of Democrat or Republican. It’s the American president supporting the Indian prime minister,” he said.






Trump weighed in on the protests in Hong Kong on Monday, saying the demonstrators are “looking for democracy” but that “some governments don’t want democracy”.
“We deplore and strongly oppose the relevant country’s gross interference in Hong Kong affairs and China’s internal affairs,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said at a regular press briefing.
China, he added, warns “the relevant country to speak and act cautiously and stop interfering in Hong Kong’s internal affairs in any form”.
He also said the United States should “not in any form support those engaged in violence and breaking the law”.
The semi-autonomous financial hub has been thrown into crisis by weeks of demonstrations over a bill that would allow extraditions to the Chinese mainland, with the issue becoming a lightning rod for resentment towards Beijing.
On Monday — the 22nd anniversary of the city’s handover to China — anger spilt over as groups of mostly young, hardline protesters, breached the legislative council.
 ‘Blatant challenge’ 
Beijing called for a criminal probe into what it dubbed a “blatant challenge” to the “one country, two systems” arrangement that has allowed Hong Kong to have its own laws, granting it special rights including freedom of speech.
The US had said that Trump would discuss Hong Kong when he met Chinese President Xi Jinping at the G20 in Japan on Saturday, during which the two leaders agreed to a trade-war ceasefire.
Asked whether the two leaders discussed Hong Kong, Geng referred to previous statements about the meeting which did not mention the topic.
“China’s position on Hong Kong is consistent and clear and firm and I believe the US knows this very well,” he said.
Geng also lashed out at “gross interference” from British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt, who wrote on Twitter that London’s support for “Hong Kong and its freedoms is UNWAVERING” on the anniversary of the handover.
“We are unswerving in our determination to oppose foreign interference. We demand the UK reflect upon the consequences of its mistaken words and deeds and stop interfering in Hong Kong’s and China’s internal affairs in any form,” he said.
The advisory, which also covers airspace over the Gulf of Oman, comes amid rising tensions between the US and Iran.
Increased tensions in the region “present an increasing inadvertent risk to US civil aviation operations due to the potential for miscalculation or mis-identification, said the FAA advisory released late Thursday.
The regulator also warned that aircraft flying in the area could encounter “inadvertent GPS interference and communications jamming, which could occur with little to no warning.”
Washington has deployed an aircraft carrier group and B-52 bombers to the region against what it claims is an imminent threat from Tehran.
President Donald Trump’s administration has also ordered non-essential diplomatic staff out of Iraq, citing threats from Iranian-backed Iraqi armed groups.
The White House however has sent mixed signals in recent days, amid multiple US media reports of infighting in Trump’s cabinet over how hard to push Washington’s arch foe.
According to US media reports, Trump’s long-hawkish national security advisor John Bolton is pushing a hard line on Iran, but others in the administration are resisting.
The White House and Pentagon have been under pressure to demonstrate the reason for the huge buildup in forces and heightened rhetoric of the past two weeks.
US coalition partners in Iraq had suggested earlier this week that the threat level there had not risen significantly, and members of Congress demanded to see the information behind the administration’s apparent preparation for possible conflict.
SUNRISE, FLORIDA – NOVEMBER 26: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks during a homecoming campaign rally at the BB&T Center on November 26, 2019 in Sunrise, Florida. President Trump continues to campaign for re-election in the 2020 presidential race.   Joe Raedle/Getty Images/AFP
Lawmakers in the Democratic-led House of Representatives spent the last two weeks publicly questioning witnesses including White House officials and diplomats over allegations Trump abused the power of his office when he pressured Ukraine to launch investigations that would help him politically.
With that stage complete, chairman Jerry Nadler of the Judiciary Committee, which is tasked with considering whether to draft articles of impeachment against the president, said the first public hearing before his panel would begin at 10:00 am (1500 GMT).
“The committee looks forward to your participation in the impeachment inquiry as the committee fulfils its constitutional duties,” Nadler said in a letter to Trump.
The hearings will address “the historical and constitutional basis of impeachment,” and “whether your alleged actions warrant the House’s exercising its authority to adopt articles of impeachment,” he added.
Under procedural rules passed by the House last month, Trump is invited to attend the judiciary committee hearings, and “the president’s counsel may question any witness called.”
Nadler in his letter reminded Trump that if he continued to refuse to allow administration personnel to testify or turn over documents sought by the inquiry, the chair may “impose appropriate remedies,” including denying presidential requests to question witnesses.
Democrats leading the probe said ahead of Tuesday’s announcement that they could present their report detailing presidential wrongdoing as early as next week when Congress reconvenes after the Thanksgiving break. 
House Intelligence Committee Adam Schiff presided over two weeks of dramatic public hearings that he said uncovered a “massive amount of evidence” despite efforts to obstruct the investigation by Trump and his administration.
Schiff said the evidence “conclusively shows” that Trump conditioned a White House meeting with Ukraine’s new president and critical US military assistance on Kiev announcing investigations that would help Trump’s 2020 reelection campaign.
Those include a probe of a Ukrainian energy company where Hunter Biden, the son of Trump’s potential election rival Joe Biden, sat on the board.
Trump in recent months has repeatedly described the Bidens as “corrupt” despite no evidence of the family committing any wrongdoing related to Ukraine.
The remaining transcripts from closed-door impeachment interviews were released on Tuesday — including testimony from Mark Sandy, a career official in the White House’s budget office, who said an attorney at the office had resigned in part due to concerns over the hold on military aid to Ukraine.
US import tariffs rose more than on more than $100 billion in Chinese goods over the weekend. 
“We are doing very well in our negotiations with China,” Trump said on Twitter, claiming China’s deteriorating economy could not withstand a long wait for a resolution.
“While I am sure they would love to be dealing with a new administration… 16 months PLUS is a long time to be haemorrhaging jobs and companies.”
“And then, think about what happens to China when I win. The deal would get MUCH TOUGHER!”
Chinese state media reported Tuesday, meanwhile, that Republican Senators Steve Daines and David Perdue met in Beijing with Vice Premier Liu He, China’s top negotiator in the trade talks.
The news followed word that efforts to get the trade talks back on track may be faltering.
US and Chinese officials are having difficulty scheduling a time to meet after Washington rebuffed Beijing’s demands to hold off on imposing the weekend’s latest round of tariff increases, according to Bloomberg.
A separate survey of battleground states, by CBS, shows Democrats strongly favor Biden as the candidate most likely to beat Trump in next year’s elections.
The Fox poll showed Biden leading Trump by 49 percent to 39 percent among all registered voters nationwide, while Senator Bernie Sanders held nearly the same advantage over the president, at 49 percent to 40 percent.
Holding edges of 1 or 2 points over Trump — albeit within the poll’s 3-point margin of error — were Senators Elizabeth Warren and Kamala Harris, as well as Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Indiana.
The polling comes more than 500 days before the November 3, 2020 election, an eternity in the political world. One widely viewed tweet this week shows five presidential candidates in recent decades who trailed at this point in their campaigns — including Trump — but who went on to win.
The president does not officially launch his re-election campaign until Tuesday, at a rally-style event in a huge arena in Orlando, Florida.
Battleground states 
Still, the Fox poll, conducted June 9 to June 12, is seen as heartening by Democrats eager to chip away at Trump’s popularity, particularly in key battleground states like Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
Trump’s campaign recently dismissed leaked data from its own pollsters showing Biden with double-digit leads in battleground states. The campaign at first denied the data, but then acknowledged it, branding it as “ancient” because it dated from March.
But the new CBS poll confirms a clear Biden lead in battleground states among Democratic voters, as the crowded race for that party’s nomination begins to take shape.
A belief among Democratic voters that Biden is best positioned to defeat Trump in 2020 was cited by three-quarters of Democrats as a decisive factor in their support.
Warren on the rise 
The CBS News/YouGov Battleground Tracker survey, conducted May 31 to June 12, said Biden had the backing of 31 percent of Democratic primary voters in 18 key early-voting states.
Biden was trailed by senators Elizabeth Warren (17 percent), Sanders (16 percent) and Kamala Harris (10 percent).
The poll, with a 1.5 percent margin of error, looked at states including Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina — which hold primary elections in February, at the top of the electoral calendar — as well as states in the upper Midwest, where Trump eked out narrow but decisive victories in 2016.
Elizabeth Warren has been steadily rising in the polls, only recently reaching statistical equivalency with Sanders, whose support has been slipping.
Sanders acknowledged on Sunday that “polls go up and polls go down” but insisted that the survey showed he was the strongest candidate to defeat Trump.
“I think we can win in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Michigan and some of the other battleground states,” the self-styled democratic socialist said on “Fox News Sunday.”
Democrats begin more earnestly winnowing down their field of nearly two dozen candidates when they hold successive nights of televised debates on June 26 and 27.
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the 29-year-old New Yorker who has emerged as a heroine to young progressives, suggested Sunday that Democrats could be in trouble in 2020 if they fail to nominate an energizing candidate with working-class appeal.
She said she would support the 76-year-old Biden if he wins the nomination but added on ABC that “we have to really factor in the enthusiasm of voters … an issue that we had in 2016.”
“We need to pick a candidate that’s going to be exciting to vote for — all people, women, people of all genders, races, income levels.”
But the Fox poll found that Democratic voters, by roughly three-to-one, wanted a nominee who would provide “steady, reliable leadership” rather than a “bold new agenda.”






Khan, “who by all accounts has done a terrible job as Mayor of London, has been foolishly ‘nasty’ to the visiting president of the United States, by far the most important ally of the United Kingdom”, he said. 
“He is a stone-cold loser who should focus on crime in London, not me,” Trump wrote, likely referring to a spike in fatal stabbings in the capital which is causing widespread public concern.
The US leader also misspelt Khan’s name, writing “Kahn”.
The two have a long history of bad relations, occasionally clashing on Twitter.
Ratcheting up their feud a notch, Khan wrote a newspaper article on Sunday in which he compared the US leader to European dictators from the 1930s and 1940s.
Khan, a Muslim whose parents arrived in London from Pakistan and who became mayor in 2016, pointed to Trump’s “deliberate use of xenophobia, racism and ‘otherness’ as an electoral tactic” as well as his travel ban efforts on mostly Muslim countries.
In a second tweet, Trump compared Khan to New York York’s liberal Mayor Bill de Blasio, with whom he has also clashed, writing that the difference between them was that London’s leader was “only half his height”.
Khan’s spokesman responded that “childish insults” should be “beneath the president of the United States”.
London is bracing for two major protests on Monday and Tuesday, with organisers planning to fly a blimp of a baby Trump dressed in a diaper, with an angry expression on his face.
Several British opposition leaders and parliament speaker John Bercow have also turned down invitations to attend Monday’s banquet with the queen in protests at Trump policies and behaviour.
Kim also said he would wait until the end of the year “for the US to make a courageous decision” on another meeting, after his most recent summit with Trump in Vietnam broke down and both sides left without agreement.
Washington has blamed the February deadlock on the North’s demands for sanctions relief in return for limited nuclear disarmament, but Pyongyang said it had wanted only some of the measures eased.
In a speech to Pyongyang’s rubber-stamp parliament Friday, Kim said the Hanoi meeting had made him question whether Washington is “genuinely interested” in improving its relations with Pyongyang.
“We are willing to give another try if the US offers to have a third summit with the right attitude and mutually acceptable terms,” he said, according to a report by North Korean state media outlet KCNA.
Kim added that his personal relationship with Trump remained strong, adding they could “write letters to each other” whenever they wanted.
“We will wait with patience until the end of the year for the US to make a courageous decision,” Kim said.
Pyongyang has been careful not to criticise Trump personally while attacking sanctions on North Korea as an attempt to “destroy modern civilisation and turn the society back in a medieval dark age”.
Trump and Kim held their first landmark summit in Singapore last June, where the pair signed a vaguely-worded agreement on the “denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula”.
But the failure to reach agreement at their second summit in Hanoi has raised questions over the future of the accord.
Trump said Thursday he was mulling a third summit with Kim ahead of a meeting with his South Korean counterpart Moon Jae-in at the Oval Office — a move supported by Seoul.
Moon brokered the US-North Korea talks and has been pushing for the resumption of inter-Korean economic projects, but doing so would fall foul of international sanctions imposed on Pyongyang.
“Our government will do what we can in order to maintain the current momentum for dialogue,” Moon’s office said in a Saturday statement.
The day before Kim accused Seoul of acting as an “overstepping mediator” and said the South should “speak up” for Pyongyang’s interests.
On Friday, KCNA reported Kim was re-elected as chairman of the State Affairs Commission, the North’s most important decision-making body, to cheers and loud applause from the delegates.
An analysis by AFP journalists of the doctored footage, in which Pelosi appears to speak in a clumsy manner, found it had been slowed to around 75 percent of its normal speed.
One version posted on Facebook by conservative site Politics WatchDog has been viewed 2.3 million times, and it was also circulating widely on YouTube and Twitter.
In the comment section of the post, Facebook users called Pelosi “drunk”, “a babbling mess”, and suggested she may have taken prescription drugs or suffered a stroke.
The video has emerged amid a bitter public row between Pelosi and Trump which has seen the US president attack his rival as “crazy Nancy” and “a mess.”
Pelosi, the speaker of the US House of Representatives, expressed hope that those close to Trump would stage an intervention “for the good of the country.”
In a tweet Thursday, Pelosi also sarcastically repeated Trump’s description of himself as a “very stable genius.”
The slowed-down video of Pelosi — who is often seen as a bete noire by Republicans — was shared by Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani on Twitter. He later deleted the tweet.
The Politics WatchDog post’s caption reads: “House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on President Trump walking out infrastructure meeting: ‘It was very, very, very strange.'”
The footage appears to have been doctored from a speech Pelosi gave at the Center for American Progress Ideas Conference in Washington DC on Tuesday.
At the event, Pelosi reiterated her belief that Trump is “obstructing justice” and is involved in a “cover-up” by refusing to cooperate with investigations by Democrats in Congress, according to satellite TV network C-SPAN, which published the original video online.
She characterized the president’s actions as a potentially “impeachable offence,” it said.
According to the Washington Post, which first reported the doctored video, the pitch of Pelosi’s voice had also been altered to disguise the fact that the video had been slowed.
“To possibly correct for how that speed change would deepen her tone, the video also appears to have been altered to modify her pitch, to more closely resemble the sound of her natural speech,” the report says.
Trump on Thursday tweeted a separate Fox News video of Pelosi which appeared to have been edited to focus on sections of a speech in which she stuttered and mispronounced certain words, with the caption “Pelosi stammers through a news conference.”
A three-judge panel of the 5th US Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans was considering a lower court decision that found the bitterly contested law unconstitutional.
If they uphold the lower court decision, millions of Americans, many of them sickly or lower income individuals, would be in danger of losing their health care coverage.
Whatever happens, the case is likely to end up before the Supreme Court sometime next year — dropping a politically radioactive issue into the middle of a heated presidential campaign.
Obamacare, formally called the Affordable Care Act, was one of the most consequential healthcare measures in US history.
At the heart of the law was a mandate requiring Americans to buy health insurance if they did not already have it, or face a tax penalty.
Under President Donald Trump’s 2017 tax overhaul, however, Congress eliminated the penalty for people who failed to sign up, and the three judges must decide whether that change invalidates the whole law.
Overturning the Affordable Care Act would be a dream come true for Trump, who campaigned on the promise to repeal the law but has so far failed to deliver.
The Texas federal court that declared the law unconstitutional in December, based its decision on a 2012 US Supreme Court ruling that found that the penalty was legal. 
The judge in Texas said the mandate was “the keystone” and that in its absence entire law should be struck down.
The case pits 18 Republican-led states, backed by Trump, against 20 Democrat-led states, supported by the Democrat-majority US House of Representatives.
The New Orleans court’s decision is not expected for several months. The outcome will apply to all states, but is expected to be appealed to the US Supreme Court.






On Thursday, The Washington Post quoted unidentified sources as saying that a US official was made to sign a pledge to pay $2 million in medical costs before being allowed to fly Warmbier back home from Pyongyang in 2017.
The envoy signed the pledge on instructions from Trump, the Post reported.  
But in a tweet Friday, Trump said: “No money was paid to North Korea for Otto Warmbier, not two Million Dollars, not anything else.”
He then wrote, without saying where the quote came from: “President Donald J. Trump is the greatest hostage negotiator that I know of in the history of the United States. 20 hostages, many in impossible circumstances, have been released in last two years. No money was paid.” Cheif (sic) Hostage Negotiator, USA!”
Warmbier, a University of Virginia student, was imprisoned after being accused of taking down a propaganda poster in his hotel during a trip to North Korea.
Doctors said he suffered severe brain damage while in North Korean detention, fell into a coma and died days after arriving back in the United States.
North Korea denied claims by the Warmbier family that he had been tortured, saying he had contracted botulism.
A coroner who examined Warmbier’s body said: “We don’t know what happened to him. That’s the bottom line”.
Trump has made rapprochement with North Korea one of his signature policies and he has held two summits with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
At their last meeting in Hanoi in February, Trump said he accepted Kim’s claim not to have known what had happened to Warmbier in prison, despite the case being extraordinarily sensitive.
“I will take him at his word,” Trump said.
Washington is widely skeptical that Trump will shift course on Iran, with his hawkish advisors long pushing a hard line aimed at crippling the clerical regime.
But Trump, who earlier shocked by meeting North Korea’s leader, appeared open on Monday as French President Emmanuel Macron proposed a summit in the coming weeks with his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani.
Responding to a suggestion by Macron, the host of a Group of Seven summit in the coastal resort of Biarritz, Trump said that Iran “may need some money to get them over a very rough patch” in the form of a line of credit.
The idea is part of a French-led effort to keep alive a 2015 deal under which Iran drastically scaled back its nuclear work. The accord was negotiated under former president Barack Obama and trashed by Trump.
Barbara Slavin, director of the Future of Iran Initiative at the Atlantic Council, said Macron was likely trying to buy time and keep Iran in the deal — sending a message as well that Trump could be gone after elections next year.
Iran has played down the possibility of a summit, with Rouhani saying that the United States must first lift all sanctions — which have badly hurt an economy that had soared following the nuclear agreement.
Slavin doubted Trump would end sanctions — or that any gesture would lead to a summit, the most likely venue for which would be on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly (UNGA) in New York next month.
“Rouhani wouldn’t meet Obama, who negotiated the deal. All Obama managed to get is a phone call with Rouhani; they didn’t even get an handshake on the sidelines of UNGA,” Slavin said.
“Trump has punished Iran more than any president in American history, for complying with an international agreement! So why would Rouhani reward Trump with this photo-op?” she said.
Unlike with North Korea, where Kim Jong Un has relished the image of standing next to Trump for leader-to-leader talks, the United States has been toxic for Iranian politicians since the 1979 Islamic revolution that toppled the Western-oriented shah.
Hawks opposed
Any sanctions relief would face heated resistance from aides led by national security advisor John Bolton, who before his appointment advocated attacking Iran and toppling its regime.
The Trump administration, which is closely allied with Iran’s rivals Saudi Arabia and Israel, has demanded far-reaching changes from Iran beyond its nuclear program including ending support for groups around the region such as Lebanon’s Hezbollah militants and Yemen’s Huthi rebels.
Mark Dubowitz, head of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, which pushes a hard line on Iran, said the idea of a summit could show that sanctions drove the regime to diplomacy.
But he warned against the credit line proposed by Macron, which reportedly could be worth as much as $15 billion to help stabilize Iran’s economy.
“This is a supremely stupid idea. Those who rightly condemned Obama in 2013-2015 for offering premature sanctions relief to the regime in Iran, instead of increasing the pressure, should be all over this,” he tweeted.
Nikki Haley, Trump’s former ambassador to the United Nations who is popular with pro-Israel advocates, criticized Macron for inviting Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif to the G7 summit.
“Manipulative of Macron to do this and very insincere. #NotWhatFriendsDo,” she tweeted.
But Nicholas Burns, a veteran US diplomat who is now a professor at Harvard, said Macron’s efforts have at least succeeded in shifting the conversation.
In June, Trump authorized an attack on Iran in retaliation for its downing of a US spy drone, although he abruptly called off the operation.
“Macron is right to try to assist in opening a channel between Washington and Tehran,” tweeted Burns.
“That could possibly allow the two to shift the issue away from the use of force to diplomacy.”






Trump’s broadside will cause pain for US companies that count on Huawei as a steady customer, but it poses an existential threat to Huawei.
“The worst case would eventually see a total cutoff of access to US technology — (Huawei) would almost certainly not survive this outcome in its current form,” the Eurasia Group consultancy said in a report issued Sunday.
The tech ban caps months of US effort to isolate Huawei, which Washington suspects has deep links to China’s military, allowing Beijing to potentially use Huawei-enabled networks for espionage or cyber-sabotage.
The risks for Huawei came into focus this week when Google, whose Android operating system powers most of the world’s smartphones, said it would cut ties with Huawei as a result of the ban.
That poses a dire threat to Huawei as loss of full access to Google’s services could make its phones a hard sell to consumers.
 Major setback 
And with the digital ecosystem now a duopoly of Android and Apple’s IoS system, Huawei is in a bind.
“This is a fairly major setback for Huawei’s smartphone division,” said Ryan Whalen, a professor with the Law and Technology Centre at the University of Hong Kong.
Huawei has said it was working on its own operating system, but Whalen notes that the Android-IoS stranglehold is nearly impossible to break.
“Just look to players like Nokia, Blackberry, and Microsoft that have all failed recently in similar endeavours,” he said.
Huawei’s other major business segment comprises carrier networks around the world powered by its equipment and which give it a leg up in the race to dominate fifth-generation (5G) technologies.
5G is the next digital milestone: its ultra-fast network speeds and data capacity making possible widespread use of artificial intelligence and other high-tech advancements that China’s government wants its companies to lead.
But here as well, Huawei is vulnerable.
It buys about $67 billion worth of components annually, including about $11 billion from US suppliers, according to a tally by The Nikkei business daily.
Eurasia Group said it had learned that major US suppliers including chipset manufacturers Qualcomm, Qorvo, and Texas Instruments, and software firms Oracle and Microsoft, have suspended shipments to Huawei until the dust settles.
This could “completely undermine” Huawei on 5G, it added.
Chinese President Xi Jinping has previously sketched out plans for China to gain dominance in key future high technologies by 2025, a strategy that has caused US alarm.
But harsh action against Huawei could give the push even more impetus, said Roger Kay, founder and analyst at Endpoint Technologies Associates.
“The longer-term effect is that Huawei and other Chinese companies turn away more sharply from American suppliers,” he said.
 Huawei shrugs it off 
Founder Ren Zhengfei shrugged off supply fears, telling Chinese media on Tuesday that Huawei has a hoard of chips and can manufacture its own.
But tech analysts view that as mere bravado.
Eurasia Group said that regardless of any chip stockpile, Huawei “cannot stockpile software, and there is no conceivable way the firm could survive for an extended period… without access to global supply chains”.
Huawei’s own chip design arm Hisilicon is also targeted by the US ban, cutting it off from critical tools it needs to continue function.
Trump could be merely using Huawei for leverage in broader trade talks: US officials have issued a 90-day reprieve on the ban.
But Beijing could hit back.
Huawei’s smartphone rival Apple could be particularly vulnerable to Chinese counter-measures as nearly 20 percent of its sales are in China and it relies heavily on Chinese factories for production.
Some sort of compromise remains possible, perhaps with the US approving case-by-case tech sales to placate American suppliers, thereby limiting the damage to Huawei.
But Trump has fuelled growing bipartisan congressional animosity against Huawei that could prevent him backing down, analysts note.
One wildcard is Europe where Huawei has significant business with carriers, for whom a supplier shift would be costly.
The US feels that a Huawei presence in Europe must be prevented for cyber-security reasons, and the main intent of the tech ban is to force Europe and other key markets to abandon Huawei on 5G, Eurasia Group said.
Germany, France and the Netherlands have resisted US pressure, but analysts say they cannot do so for long.
Further US pressure would make it “very difficult for the EU to continue working with Huawei,” said Guntram Wolff, director of Brussels-based think-tank Bruegel.
Former US Ambassador to the Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch is sworn in before the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence as part of the impeachment inquiry into US President Donald Trump, on Capitol Hill on November 15, 2019 in Washington DC. – Public impeachment hearings resume Friday with the testimony of former ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch, who says she was ousted because the Trump administration believed she would not go along with plans to pressure Ukraine to investigate Democrat Joe Biden, a potential Trump White House rival in 2020. (Photo by Andrew Harrer / POOL / AFP)
Earlier witnesses in the inquiry said ambassador Marie Yovanovitch was removed after a smear campaign involving Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani, accused of helping to coordinate the president’s effort to pressure Kiev into investigating his Democratic rival Joe Biden.
Yovanovitch, a highly regarded career diplomat who was pulled from her post in May, will now tell her side of the story in an open, nationally televised setting, as Democratic lawmakers sharpen their case against the president.
“Ambassador Yovanovitch was serving our nation’s interest in fighting corruption in Ukraine,” House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, who is overseeing the impeachment probe, said in his opening statement.
“But she was considered an obstacle to the furtherance of the president’s personal and political agenda. For that, she was smeared and cast aside.”
Devin Nunes, the top Republican on the panel, hit back by dismissing what he called “Watergate fantasies.”
“The Democrats have convened us once again to advance their operation to topple a duly elected president.”
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi Thursday accused Trump of “bribery” for freezing US military aid to Ukraine in an effort to get the country to launch political investigations against his potential 2020 election rival Biden, and his son Hunter.
“The devastating testimony” from the first public impeachment hearing this week “corroborated evidence of bribery uncovered in the inquiry,” the top congressional Democrat said.
The investigation threatens to make Trump the third US president to be impeached, after Andrew Johnson in 1868 and Bill Clinton in 1998, although the Senate — where Republicans enjoy a majority — would need to convict him to remove him from office.
Pelosi’s comments signal her party believes the evidence that emerged is strong enough to back their argument that Trump abused the power of his office.
It also revealed a clear effort to move away from the term “quid pro quo” — the Latin term they had been using to describe the withholding of both aid and a White House meeting until Ukraine announced the political investigations.
Yovanovitch, who had urged Ukraine to do more to fight corruption, said in closed-door testimony last month that she was “shocked” to learn of Giuliani’s secret shadow policy to pressure Ukraine. 
She also testified that she was told to “watch my back” after she made clear she would not be a part of the effort, and that a Ukrainian official who had met with Giuliani wanted to “hurt” her.
 ‘Bad news’ 
Yovanovitch said she was ousted in May over “false claims” spread by questionable actors allied to Trump.
And she expressed concern about retaliation, especially after learning that Trump, on his July 25 telephone call with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky, described her as “bad news” and told Zelensky that Yovanovitch was “going to go through some things.”
During Wednesday’s opening hearing, senior career State Department official George Kent told the House Intelligence Committee that he was “alarmed” when the smear campaign aimed at Yovanovitch began to bear fruit.
It led to Yovanovitch’s ouster “and hampered US efforts to establish a rapport with the new Zelensky administration in Ukraine,” Kent said.
Also testifying Wednesday was William Taylor, the top US envoy to Ukraine, who revealed details of a previously unknown phone call between Trump and another diplomat involved in the irregular Ukraine policy channel.
Taylor said an aide at the embassy in Kiev overheard the call between Trump and US Ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland, in which Trump asked about the status of the “investigations.”
That aide, David Holmes, was set to testify behind closed doors later Friday about the contents of the call — of which Trump says he has no recollection.
In Washington, some commentators shrug off the bellicose talk towards Tehran saying it will abate when President Donald Trump reins in his hawkish national security adviser John Bolton to avoid a new — and potentially far larger — foreign military commitment.
But in Baghdad, the Pentagon’s deployment to the Gulf of a carrier group led by the USS Abraham Lincoln accompanied by B-52 bombers has many people persuaded the US threats are very real.
In March 2003, warplanes from the Lincoln flew sortie after sortie over Iraq in the “shock and awe” bombing blitz that signalled the start of the US-led invasion.
The carrier had first deployed to the region in the aftermath of the 1991 Gulf War which ousted Saddam Hussein’s forces from Kuwait.
In May 2003, it was from the Lincoln’s flight deck that president George W. Bush announced the “end of major combat operations” in Iraq in front of a large banner proclaiming: “Mission Accomplished”.
The victory declaration was to prove horribly premature, but to Iraqis the nuclear-powered carrier remains a potent symbol of Washington’s readiness to use its formidable military might.
The Lincoln “does not move just for the sake of exerting psychological pressure”, said civil rights activist Aysar Jarjafji.
“It is deployed for a reason and returns home only when it has accomplished its mission,” she said.
Iraq ‘first loser’ 
Columnist Hussein Rashid agreed. “There is no question about it, there will be war,” he said.
“And Iraq will be the first loser.
“The Abraham Lincoln bombed Iraq. We have a bad memory of that.”
Taxi driver Abu Hammudi too believes war is coming.
It is Ramadan and the streets of Baghdad are largely deserted during the day as Muslims await the iftar meal that marks the end of their dawn-to-dusk fast.
“The city is empty, it’s like wartime,” he said.
“I remember perfectly well how Baghdad was bombed in 1991. It was a horrific night. No one had expected it to happen but it did.”
Like many taxi drivers in Baghdad, Hammudi drives an Iranian-manufactured yellow Saipa.
The neighbouring countries, which have centuries-old religious and cultural ties, have massively expanded cross-border trade since the US-led overthrow of Saddam’s regime, which fought a devastating 1980-88 war against Iran.
Trump strongly disapproves and has piled huge pressure on Iraq to reduce its economic dependence on it neighbour since he abandoned his predecessor Barack Obama’s 2015 nuclear deal with Iran last year.
‘Interests at stake’ 
But in Iraq, the Trump administration faces the hard reality that US military trainers and contractors work in the same ministries and businesses as those of Iran.
“American interests are present in Iraq and militias linked to Iran are also present here,” said Jarjafji, sipping an after-iftar drink at a Baghdad cafe.
She was referring to Iraq’s Hashed al-Shaabi paramilitary force, which is dominated by Iranian-trained Shiite militias.
Those Iranian military trainers, like their US counterparts working with the regular army, played a major role in helping Baghdad defeat the Islamic State group fighters who overran much of the north and west of Iraq in 2014.
But it those same Iranian-trained militias which Washington said on Thursday pose the “imminent” threat to US personnel in Iraq that prompted the latest military deployments.
Washington has blacklisted Iran’s Revolutionary Guards — the parallel army which provides the training — as a “terrorist” organisation.
Iraqi militia commanders on Thursday dismissed the US allegation as a “provocation” and “psychological warfare”.
And Washington’s assessment of the immediacy of the threat is not shared by all of its allies in the coalition it forged to fight IS.
“There has been no increased threat from Iranian-backed forces in Iraq and Syria,” British coalition spokesman Major General Chris Ghika said on Tuesday.
Iraqi university professor Issa al-Abbadi said he was still hopeful that the realities on the ground would lead moderate voices to prevail.
“There could be a deal. Interests are at stake,” he said of the uneasy coexistence between Washington and Tehran in Iraq.
“Victory in war is in avoiding it.”






Repeated past praise for WikiLeaks from Trump was not “an endorsement,” Pence told CNN.
Republicans generally celebrated the capture of Assange, who had been taking shelter at Ecuador’s London embassy for nearly seven years until British police took him into custody Thursday.
But Trump’s first reaction was dismissive, telling reporters “I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It’s not my thing.”
“I know nothing really about him,” he said of Assange.
This raised eyebrows because during his 2016 presidential campaign Trump repeatedly lauded and encouraged the hacking and information-dumping platform, which six years earlier had caused a massive scandal by publishing thousands of secret US military and diplomatic documents.
“I love WikiLeaks,” he said on one occasion, as the platform leaked stolen emails that proved damaging to his opponent Hillary Clinton’s campaign — even though WikiLeaks is alleged to have been working in close coordination with Russian intelligence.
Pence told CNN that Trump simply backed the exposure of information during the election, not the WikiLeaks organization itself.
“I think the president always, as you and the media do, always welcomes information,” Pence said. “But that was in no way an endorsement of an organization that we now understand was involved in disseminating classified information by the United States of America,” he said.
Other Republicans appear less satisfied with Trump’s position on the drama over Assange, who faces extradition to the United States.
“You need to talk to the president about his comments,” Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr said.
White House Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney speaks during a press briefing at the White House in Washington, DC. (Photo by JIM WATSON / AFP)
Mulvaney, Trump’s acting chief of staff, walked back that admission only hours after making it Thursday, and on Sunday he again revised his explanation of Trump’s July 25 phone call with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky, playing down any linkage to a political investigation.
But Mulvaney’s original admission — that “we held up the money” partly to secure Ukraine’s promise to investigate a conspiracy theory that the US Democratic National Committee’s hacked computer server was now in Ukraine proved explosive, and on “Fox News Sunday” he was asked whether he had offered to resign. 
“Absolutely not,” Mulvaney said. Asked whether he even discussed the matter with Trump, he repeated, “Absolutely not.”
Mulvaney’s original admission had provoked a storm of criticism from Democrats and caused consternation and head-shaking among Republicans as well.
After saying Thursday that “we held up the money” for three reasons including the DNC matter, on Sunday he listed only two: concern over corruption in Ukraine and questions about European aid to that country.
Mulvaney said once the US satisfied itself about Kiev’s cracking down on internal corruption and the Europeans’ providing adequate aid proved that those were the only relevant demands and were “legitimate for the president to do.”
The aid to Ukraine was in fact released only after members of Congress from both parties raised a concern about it being mysteriously held up.
At around the same time, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff was beginning to ask questions about a whistleblower report that the administration was refusing to turn over to Congress.
The whistleblower report, which was eventually made public, detailed for the first time an alleged quid pro quo in Trump’s July 23 conversation with Zelensky.
Mulvaney has repeatedly played down Trump’s requests to Zelensky to investigate former US Vice President Joe Biden, a possible Democratic rival in 2020, and his son Hunter. 
A former conservative congressman, Mulvaney has served as acting chief of staff since January. He also serves as director of the Office of Management and Budget.






The dialogue in Shanghai on Tuesday and Wednesday will be the first face-to-face meetings since negotiations collapsed in May after President Donald Trump accused Beijing of reneging on its commitments.
Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer will lead the US delegation.
The White House said in a statement the talks, with Vice Premier Liu He, will “cover a range of issues, including intellectual property, forced technology transfer, non-tariff barriers, agriculture, services, the trade deficit and enforcement.”
Senior officials have spoken by phone twice in the last two weeks in the bid to jump-start the negotiations.
Mnuchin said on CNBC he hopes to make progress but added there are “a lot of issues” pending so he expects another round of talks would follow in Washington.
At a meeting in Japan last month, US President Donald Trump and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping agreed to cease further hostilities in the year-long trade war while the two sides worked to revive negotiations.
The countries have imposed tariffs on $360 billion in two-way trade and Trump has threatened even more punishing duties on Chinese goods.
That truce halted Trump’s plan to hit China with another round of punishing tariffs on $300 billion in goods. The International Monetary Fund warned that that step added to existing tariffs would cut global economic growth by 0.5 percent.
Washington is demanding Beijing end the theft of American technology, and open its economy further to imported goods and foreign investment.
Stock markets were cheered when word of possible talks emerged Tuesday but the good news was overshadowed Wednesday by disappointing earnings results from Boeing and Caterpillar — which specifically pointing to weakening demand in China.
 National security concerns 
The trade dispute has become enmeshed in a national security conflict that led Washington to impose tough sanctions on Chinese telecom giant Huawei, sharply curtailing the company’s operations angering Beijing.
The Trump administration has put Huawei on its so-called Entity List, which means US companies need a license to supply it with US technology.
Huawei — a leader in next-generation 5G wireless technology — remains barred from developing 5G networks in the United States, and the Trump administration is trying to convince its allies to do the same.
Mnuchin implied that the Huawei case is on a separate track from the trade talks. The Commerce Department is looking at applications for waivers from the sanctions.
He also downplayed concerns about links between Google and Beijing.
“We’re not aware of Google working with the Chinese government in a way that raises concerns,” Mnuchin said.
“They assured us that there is very, very limited work. The only work they’re doing is some minimal open source work.”
Trump last week said he wants his administration to “take a look” into whether Google has been working with the Chinese government — an allegation swiftly denied by the US internet giant.
“Don’t meddle in the election, president, don’t meddle,” Trump said with a smile, wagging his finger playfully at the Russian leader as the pair held talks in Osaka on Friday, on the sidelines of the G20.
Putin said nothing but grinned in response to the comment, which came only after a reporter shouted a question, asking whether Trump would warn his Russian counterpart about influencing the presidential vote next year.
The meeting was the first time the two leaders have held face-to-face talks since a controversial meeting last year in Helsinki.
Trump has been dogged throughout his presidency by allegations of suspicious ties to Russia.
A major probe led by special prosecutor Robert Mueller found there was an organised Russian campaign to influence the 2016 election won by Trump.
It found contacts between Russian operatives and Trump’s election campaign, but no evidence of a joint plot, and the US leader has characterised the findings as exonerating him.
Ahead of his meeting with Putin, Trump brushed aside questions from reporters about what they would discuss.
“What I say to him is none of your business,” he said at the White House.
But on Friday Trump said the pair would be discussing “trade… some disarmament, a little protectionism perhaps.”
“A lot of very positive things are going to come out of the relationship,” he predicted, to smiles from Putin.
“I cannot but agree with Mr President,” the Russian leader said.
(FILES) In this file photo taken on September 5, 2019, US Ambassador to the European Union, Gordon Sondland addresses the media during a press conference at the US Embassy to Romania in Bucharest. – Sondland according to the whistleblower report met with Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky to provide “advice” and how to “navigate” demands by US President Donald Trump. In-text messages released October 4, 2019, Sondland reportedly said withholding military aid to Ukraine was not a quid pro quo. (Photo by Daniel MIHAILESCU / AFP)
Gordon Sondland, a wealthy donor to Trump’s 2016 campaign who was part of text message chains discussing the president’s effort to pressure Ukraine to investigate a political rival, was scheduled to testify this week but the administration blocked him.
That prompted a subpoena by committees leading the probe in the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives for Sondland to be deposed in closed session.
“Notwithstanding the State Department’s current direction to not testify, Ambassador Sondland will honour the Committees’ subpoena, and he looks forward to testifying on Thursday,” Sondland’s lawyer Robert Luskin said.
The statement was released Friday on the same morning that the former US ambassador to Kiev, Marie Yovanovitch, was to testify before the panels about what she knows of the Trump administration’s pressure effort on Ukraine.
House Democrats are looking into whether Yovanovitch, a career diplomat, was removed by Trump because she failed to go along with a bid coordinated by Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani to get Ukraine to open an investigation into Democratic presidential hopeful Joe Biden and his son.
Even one hour before her scheduled testimony it was not clear if Yovanovitch would appear or be blocked by the administration.
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi looks on during a media briefing after meeting with US President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, DC on October 16, 2019. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Pelosi is second in succession to the office of the U.S. Presidency according to the U.S. constitution.  Being a non-U.S. citizen, I feel sufficiently removed from partisan politics and at liberty to explore and perhaps hanker after this outcome as a woman and a stakeholder in the success of global democracy. 
Not only does the title, “President Nancy Pelosi” ring with extreme gravitas, but it is also reassuring and confidence engendering. Pelosi is the highest-ranking elected woman in U.S. history, ergo world history. First elected to congress in 1987, she is serving as the Speaker of the House of Representatives.  Possessed of oodles of smarts, tenacity, forbearance and sheer grit, she has translated these qualities into a stellar political career “sans pareil”.  
In essence, she inhabits her own orbit and is not to be trifled with.  Her formidable career has in real-time reached a climax of national and global expectations and cautious hope.  She is the “chosen one”.  Her twilight days as a working woman presently intersects with unprecedented domestic political crises and myriad global challenges of existential proportions.
As an indigenous African my terms of reference often encompass and project our God-given and magnificent gift to the world, which is our incomparable, wildlife species in their natural habitat. The apex of this divine benevolence is the laser-focused, dignified and battle-tested matriarch of a dominant pride of lions. Pelosi embodies the spirit of the majestic “lioness- queen” of Africa’s flora and fauna.  Whether it is her uncanny ability to corral the uncurbed exuberance of young “cubs” in her Party or mollify and win over the more wily and seasoned members of the pride, whilst evincing indispensable cunning in dealing with fierce, unrelenting adversaries, Pelosi has shown herself to be matchless.   She is in perfect sync with the felis leo, fearlessly and patiently crouching in the long savannah grass, under a tangerine-hued African sky; carefully scanning the sun-drenched landscape observing threats and prey alike and not unmindful of approaching dark and ominous thunder clouds.  
Having resisted persistent calls from members of her caucus to launch an impeachment inquiry into the conduct of a flagrantly lawless President, she recently capitulated, stating the following inter alia: “They asked Benjamin Franklin: What do we have, a republic or a monarchy? Franklin replied, A republic if you can keep it’’. Pelosi added, “The times have found us today, not to place ourselves in the same category of greatness as our founders but to place us in the urgency of protecting and defending our constitution from all enemies foreign and domestic’’. The lioness roared. She determined it was time to leap into the thickets and marshlands of a Presidential impeachment, taking the whole pride with her and using the last of her “nine lives’’ to fight a just cause. In Africa the roar of a lion is amplified multiple times, sending shock waves through the jungle and leaving all living creatures in paroxysms of fear. 
In keeping with her spiritual avatar, Pelosi is singularly territorial and will defend her territory to the uttermost. Pelosi’s territory is the U.S. constitution. She has been entrusted to be a gatekeeper of the sacred document, in honour of the nation’s progenitors and for the sake of its progeny. The blood and sacrifice of countless compatriots, which secured inalienable rights and freedoms, will not be disdained or nullified under her watch.  Tyranny will be stalked, stalled and stopped.  
Trump’s flagrant breaches of black letter law, mounting evisceration of the rule of law and upending of norms and values, have chipped away the guardrails of democratic governance. His onslaughts against the ramparts of democracy are in lock-step with his domestic agenda, which can best be described as shambolic.  His offerings are served on a tin platter laden with malice and discord.  
Unfortunately for us in the global community, his International agenda fares no better. Thus far he has demonstrated ad nauseum a penchant for cozying up to dictators, routinely pursuing his bottom line and stabbing allies in the eyeballs.  The latest rendition of this pattern is his abandonment of American-allied Kurdish forces in Syria in the face of an imminent attack by Turkey.  The double-cross coincides with a telephone call from Recep Erdogan, the authoritarian leader of Turkey, whose country Trump has a notable business interest. 
Pelosi was galvanized into action, following the release of a White House telephone transcript between Trump and Volodymyr Zelensky, President of Ukraine. Trump was heard to demand a bogus investigation be launched against former Vice-President Joe Biden, his main political rival, in exchange for desperately needed military aid, which had been approved by Congress.  
Trump had placed an embargo on the funds in order to strong-arm the leader of Ukraine, who was heard practically groveling for the defensive weapons. Trump and a group of cohorts, including Vice-President Mike Pence, who despite his beatific mien admitted his involvement in a said telephone call, are actively engaged in exporting corrupt practices and banditry to other nations and jeopardizing national security. We are nonplussed and saddened. This is the culmination of Trumpism in full hydra-headed bloom, in which the torch of democratic values is close to becoming dust and ashes. Dare we hope for Speaker Nancy Pelosi to assume the mantle of U.S. President and de facto leader of the free world? We instinctively know the world would be in a better place and in safer hands. The scenario would make for a picture-perfect sunset ending of a life in the sun and sometimes life does imitate art. 
Ms Irene Fowler is an International lawyer (LL.M Harvard) based in Lagos Nigeria. Her work has appeared in The Hill, Washington DC., Global Policy Institute, Loyola Marymount University, California, Women in Leadership, London UK, Op-Ed News (A U.S. based liberal news website) and The European Network Against Racism, Brussels, Belgium, among other publications.
Eric Trump (R) sits next to his father US president Donald Trump (L) to watch the Ultimate Fighting Championship at Madison Square Garden in New York City, New York on November 2, 2019. (Photo by ANDREW CABALLERO-REYNOLDS / AFP)
Trump, wearing a dark suit and a red tie, pumped his fist and waved at the crowd as he walked into the city’s iconic Madison Square Garden arena on Saturday night. 
There was no repeat of the loud chants of “lock him up” that greeted Trump when he attended a World Series baseball game last weekend, but loud jeers rung out. 
Many mixed martial arts fans also clapped and cheered as Trump took his seat just 15 feet from the cage where the UFC was set to award the “BMF” belt. 
Several dozen protesters carrying placards with slogans such as “Trump/Pence Out Now!” and “Headlock Him Up” demonstrated outside the 20,000-seat venue as Trump arrived for the pay-per-view spectacle. 
The president, 73, looked on in concern as lightweight Kevin Lee delivered a vicious left kick to rival Gregor Gillespie’s face during the first bout on the main card.
The contact, which left the fighter sprawled on the ground for around 30 seconds, drew loud gasps from the capacity crowd as they watched the slow-motion replay of his face being squished.
Trump could be seen clapping in support when Gillespie finally got to his feet.
The president was attending the fight night with sons Donald Jr and Eric. 
Jorge Masvidal and Nate Diaz were due to slug it out for the “BMF” belt later Saturday.






While Pakistan has often sought third-party mediation in the decades-old dispute which has cost tens of thousands of lives, the idea is anathema to India, which has always insisted the issue can only be resolved bilaterally.
Trump set off a political storm in India by claiming during a meeting in Washington on Monday with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan that Modi had asked him two weeks ago to mediate in the Kashmir dispute.
“I’d like to categorically assure the house that no such request was made by the prime minister to the US president,” Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar told the Indian parliament, barely able to make his voice heard over the opposition tumult.
Jaishankar insisted the conflict could only be settled bilaterally and that Pakistan had to end “cross-border terrorism” before any talks.
Trump’s comments touched on one of the most sensitive topics for New Delhi.
India has disputed Kashmir with its neighbour since their independence in 1947. Both control parts of the former Himalayan kingdom but claim it in its entirety.
They have fought two wars over the region and tens of thousands, mainly civilians, have died since an insurgency erupted three decades ago in Indian-administered Kashmir.
On Tuesday, tensions resumed across the line of control — the de facto border dividing Kashmir — as firing broke out, violating a ceasefire between the two nations.
There were no immediate reports of casualties.
 ‘Poles apart’ 
Indian opposition leaders demanded that Modi make a personal statement to parliament to confirm that there was no change in New Delhi’s longstanding policy of only direct talks with Islamabad.
Khan — on an official visit to the United States — stirred the controversy further by saying Kashmir could only be resolved with outside help.
“Bilaterally, there will never be (an end to the Kashmir conflict),” Khan told Fox News, adding that Pakistan and India were “poles apart”.
“I really feel that India should come… (to) the table. The US could play a big part, President Trump certainly can play a big part.”
Some US politicians quickly distanced themselves from Trump’s comments. 
Brad Sherman, a Democratic Congressman and member of the House foreign affairs committee, said he apologised to the Indian ambassador in Washington for Trump’s statement.
“Everyone knows PM Modi would never suggest such a thing. Trump’s statement is amateurish and delusional. And embarrassing,” he tweeted.
The State Department also sought to calm the storm.
“While Kashmir is a bilateral issue for both parties to discuss, the Trump administration welcomes #Pakistan and #India sitting down and the United States stands ready to assist,” tweeted Alice Wells, the Acting Assistant Secretary of the department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and White House economics advisor Larry Kudlow took to the airwaves from France, where Trump is participating in the G7 summit, to smooth out tensions in the business community prompted by Trump’s Friday tweet.
Trump said he has “no plan now” to bring US companies in line, and his aides quickly reinforced the message.”He would have the authority to do that… He has not done that,” Mnuchin told “Fox News Sunday.”
Mnuchin said that authority comes from the somewhat obscure International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), a federal law passed in 1977.
The law grants the president powers to regulate international trade in the face of an “unusual and extraordinary threat” from abroad to US foreign policy, national security or the economy.
But it has never been used to tip the scales in a trade dispute.”I think what he was saying is that he is ordering companies to start looking,” he added.
The Trump administration wants US businesses to operate in places where “trading partners respect us and trade with us fairly,” Mnuchin added.
Senior Trump aide Stephen Miller said in an interview with Fox News: “No American business ought to be wholly dependent on China. It’s not a good long-term investment.”
‘Come back to the USA’ 
On Friday, Trump  furious about Beijing’s decision to hike tariffs on US goods — sounded the alarm to homegrown companies just before announcing a planned escalation in tariffs on Chinese imports.
“Our great American companies are hereby ordered to immediately start looking for an alternative to China, including bringing your companies HOME and making your products in the USA,” he said on Twitter  sending Wall Street tumbling.
Jennifer Hillman, a professor at Georgetown University’s School of Law and a former general counsel in the office of the US Trade Representative, said on Twitter that she does not believe that Trump can invoke the IEEPA because he hasn’t met the “prerequisites.”
She also said there were no “retroactive controls” on foreign direct investment already made.
On Sunday, Kudlow emphasized: “There’s nothing right now in the cards.”
“Come back to the USA, where we have very low corporate tax rates and massive deregulation programs,” Kudlow said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” 
“Our economy is doing just fine right now, and so come home.”
Already, some companies, especially in the clothing and electronics sectors, have started making adjustments to their supply chains and researching production sites outside China, in other countries with low-cost labor.
But business leaders have cautioned that such changes take time.
The National Retail Federation, though critical of China’s trade practices, offered a furious reaction on Friday to the latest salvos from the Trump administration.
“It’s impossible for businesses to plan for the future in this type of environment,” said senior vice president of government relations David French.
“The administration’s approach clearly isn’t working, and the answer isn’t more taxes on American business and consumers. Where does this end?”
For Gerald Seib, the executive Washington editor of The Wall Street Journal, Trump’s “order” was a sign of frustration from a president who nevertheless cannot stop the power of capitalism.
“This is a capitalist system and whether presidents like it or not, companies make decisions on what they do and they don’t do, what they buy and what they sell and where they make goods based on what’s in their own best interests,” Seib wrote.
“He can’t simply make it happen by snapping his fingers.”Despite the uptick in tensions, Kudlow insisted that US-China trade talks would go ahead next month in Washington.






No official crowd figures were available yet, but more people are expected to join the banner-waving protesters later for a planned speech by opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn.
“His policies are awful… but him, himself, he’s horrible,” said pregnant protester Lauren Donaldson, 31, who was wearing a T-Shirt saying “bumps against Trump” over her baby bump.
“Giving a state visit, it just looks like we are agreeing and welcoming him, and we want to say ‘you are not welcome, go home’.”
As it started to rain, many protesters began to make the short walk past the hundreds of police lining Whitehall to Parliament Square, where the Trump blimp had earlier taken flight.
The 20-foot balloon of Trump wearing a nappy had been the focal point of protests against Trump’s visit last year, and was back by “popular demand”, according to organiser Leo Murray, a full-time climate activist.
 ‘Upsetting’ 
“When the state visit was announced we were suddenly inundated with messages saying ‘you’ve got to fly the baby again’,” Murray said.
“We know that it’s upset him and it’s got under his skin,” he added, saying it had become “a mascot… against Trump’s hateful and divisive politics.”
The Museum of London is in talks to acquire the inflatable as part of its protest collection.
The demonstrators booed and shouted expletives as Trump’s motorcade swept past on its way to Downing Street.
Protesters at Trafalgar Square were split into different sections, with some highlighting Trump’s climate policies, others waving Palestinian flags and socialists flying hammer and sickle banners.
A giant effigy of Trump sitting on a toilet while firing off tweets was set up next to the square’s famous lion statues, as hundreds waved placards reading “Dump Trump”.
Other banners read “Hey Mr Tangerine Man, sod off back to America,” and “We don’t like you”, although one supporter of the president wandered through the crowd wearing a “MAGA” baseball cap, attracting puzzled glances.
“It’s hard to tell with that guy, he might take it as flattery even,” Norwegian student Helen Thuen, 25, said of Trump’s reaction to the protests.
“But I don’t care, it’s not about sending a message to him, it’s about sending a message to everyone who is affected by his policies,” added the Palestinian flag-waving demonstrator.
Frances Vernon, 59, said it was Trump’s personality that brought her onto the streets with a sign reading “Trump is a moron”.
“I don’t see any kindness in him at all… he just gives me the creeps, I see nothing redeeming about him,” she said.
The state visit “makes me feel very peculiar, a bit upsetting and sickening”.
Some people did turn out for a show of support for the US leader, and police had to step in to separate the pro- and anti-Trump protesters.
The president’s three-day visit is centred around Wednesday’s D-Day 75th anniversary commemorations on the south shore of England, after which he will visit Ireland and Normandy, northern France.
“I was on the call,” Pompeo told a news conference in Rome.
It was Pompeo’s first public comment on whether he had heard Trump ask the president of Ukraine to dig up dirt on political rival Joe Biden and his son Hunter in the July 25 call.
Pompeo did not say what was discussed in Trump’s half-hour conversation with Volodymyr Zelensky.
He also again lambasted Democratic congressional leaders pressing for quick testimony from five State Department diplomats as part of their probe of the Ukraine scandal now threatening the Trump presidency.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s office has defended his Brexit deal with the EU after US President Donald Trump warned it would make it impossible for the two nations to strike a future trade agreement.
The president, whose impeachment in the US has moved a stage closer following a key vote in Congress, waded into the British election campaign on Thursday to criticise Johnson’s divorce terms with the European bloc.
“This deal… you can’t do it, you can’t trade. We can’t make a trade deal with the UK,” he said.
But a Downing Street spokesman later said the deal would allow the UK to strike “our own free trade deals around the world from which every part of the UK will benefit”.
Trump’s comments appear at odds with his previous pledge in September that he was working closely with Johnson to strike a “magnificent trade deal” once Britain left the EU.
The US president also launched a stinging attack on the country’s main opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn and urged Johnson to unite with eurosceptic hardliner Nigel Farage, a key figure in the 2016 referendum on European Union membership.
“Corbyn would be so bad for your country,” Trump told Farage during a phone interview broadcast on his talk show on British radio station LBC.
“He’d take you in such a bad way. He’d take you into such bad places.”
“I’d like to see you and Boris get together… I think it’d be a great thing,” Trump added.
Farage, whose new Brexit Party is campaigning for Britain to leave the EU without any deal in place, has urged Johnson to form an electoral alliance but has so far been rebuffed.
He is due to launch his party’s election campaign on Friday.
 ‘Trump trying to interfere’ 
Within minutes of the interview airing, Corbyn shot back on Twitter that “Trump is trying to interfere in Britain’s election to get his friend Boris Johnson elected”.
Johnson agreed on new divorce terms with the bloc’s leaders earlier this month, ahead of the country’s scheduled departure on Thursday.
But he was unable to push the plan through parliament and instead opted to hold a snap pre-Christmas election, blaming his Labour rivals for the latest Brexit delay and promising to now take the country out by a new January 31 deadline.
“If you vote for us and we get our programme through, which we will… we can be out, at the absolute latest, by January next year,” Johnson said during a campaign stop Thursday at a hospital.
The Conservative leader is riding high in opinion polls going into the December 12 vote that will be Britain’s third in four years.
But he risks a backlash over his unkempt “do or die” promise to deliver Brexit on October 31 — and has again set himself up for another potential fall by promising to meet the next deadline.
Pro-EU campaigners and business executives have breathed a sigh of relief that Britain avoided a Halloween Brexit nightmare that could have seen it crash out of the EU after 46 years without a plan.
US President Donald Trump speaks to the press after announcing and initial deal with China   at the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, DC before departing to Lake Charles, Louisiana to hold a campaign rally on October 11, 2019. – President Donald Trump on Friday hailed a breakthrough in his drawn-out trade war with China, saying the two sides reached an initial deal covering intellectual property, financial services and currencies. (Photo by Nicholas Kamm / AFP)
In the internet meme — taken from a scene in the 2014 spy comedy “Kingsman: The Secret Service” — the president’s head is superimposed on a man opening fire on people whose faces have been replaced with the logos of media outlets including CNN, The Washington Post and NBC TV.
“The @POTUS @realDonaldTrump has not yet seen the video, he will see it shortly, but based upon everything he has heard, he strongly condemns this video,” White House spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham said in a tweet.
During the rampage inside the “Church of Fake News,” the Trump character strikes the late senator John McCain on the back of the neck and torches the head of Senator Bernie Sanders, a 2020 Democratic presidential rival.
He throws Republican senator Mitt Romney to the ground and strikes former president Barack Obama in the back and slams him against a wall.
The organizer of last week’s three-day “American Priority” event — which was held at the president’s Trump National Doral Miami resort — said the clip was part of a “meme exhibit.”
The New York Times reported that the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., his former spokeswoman, Sarah Sanders, and Florida Governor Ron DeSantis were among the scheduled speakers.
“American Priority rejects all political violence and aims to promote a healthy dialogue about the preservation of free speech,” Alex Phillips told The New York Times.
 ‘Endorsement of violence’ 
CNN wrote on Twitter: “This is not the first time that supporters of the President have promoted violence against the media in a video they apparently find entertaining, but it is by far and away the worst.”
The network called on the White House to denounce the clip, saying “anything less equates to a tacit endorsement of violence.”
The White House Correspondents’ Association also called on Trump to denounce the meme.
“At a conference of Trump supporters, they played a video of our president murdering journalists in a church,” tweeted Democratic presidential hopeful Beto O’Rourke.
The former Texas congressman noted that Trump supporter Cesar Sayoc was jailed last year to CNN and prominent Democrats, while only two days ago a shooter opened fire on a wedding in a small-town church in New Hampshire.
“This video isn’t funny. It will get people killed,” he said.
Media organizations have come under regular verbal attack from Trump and his supporters.
At rallies, the US president repeatedly encourages the crowd to boo and heckle journalists covering the event, calling them “fake news” and “enemy of the people.”
Trump has previously tweeted a roughly edited video clip of him attacking a wrestler whose head had been superimposed with a CNN logo.
Mexico got a 45-day reprieve from Trump’s tariffs under last Friday’s deal, and is keen to show Washington it is doing everything it can to stem what Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard called “one of the largest migrant flows in the world”: Central Americans fleeing poverty and violence to seek asylum in the US.
But Ebrard and leftist President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador also have to convince the Mexican people and Congress they did not get shafted in negotiations with the Trump administration.
Ebrard faced a likely grilling as he appeared before the Mexican legislature, where lawmakers want him to explain what exactly is in the mysterious document that Trump waved around in front of reporters this week, saying “That’s the agreement that everybody says I don’t have.”
“I’m going to let Mexico do the announcement,” Trump added, after facing criticism at home suggesting there was little new in the migration deal.
Trump happy, for now
Ebrard, who led the Mexican negotiating team in Washington, denies there is any “secret deal.”But he admits Mexico has agreed to reopen discussions on Trump’s demand for a “safe third country agreement” — in which migrants entering Mexican territory would have to seek asylum there rather than the US — if Washington deems its progress insufficient after 45 days.
In Washington, Trump appeared content to play nice with Mexico — for now.
“Big difference in the border between now and this time last week. Mexico has been doing a terrific job. Hey, 6,000 soldiers, and if it doesn’t work out, then we go back to very strong measures,” he said on Fox News.
“The stoppage is unbelievable and I got reports yesterday, it’s like day and night.”
He added, however, that if Mexico did not address the issue to his satisfaction, he would make it implement a safe third country agreement.
– Angry senators –
Any such deal would have to go through Mexico’s Senate — and lawmakers there look ready for a fight.
“The Mexican government has been revealing the extent of this deal in dribs and drabs. They say they can’t tell us anything more for strategic reasons,” said opposition lawmaker Gustavo Madero of the conservative National Action Party (PAN).
He accused the Lopez Obrador administration of “prostrating (Mexico) before the United States.”
“Under no circumstances can the Mexican state commit to any international agreement without the Senate’s approval. If that’s their intention, we’re going to take them to court,” said a fellow party member, Senator Damian Zepeda.
The discontent extends to Lopez Obrador’s own party, Morena, which holds majorities in both houses of Congress.
“They want to turn our country into a cage” for migrants, said the speaker of the lower house, Porfirio Munoz Ledo.
In a warning sign for Lopez Obrador, senators froze committee proceedings Wednesday on ratifying the USMCA, the country’s new and vitally important trade agreement with the US and Canada, saying they wanted to question Ebrard on the migration deal first.
Tension has only mounted amid evasive answers from Ebrard to questions about what happens if Trump decides Mexico has not done enough to curb migration after 45 days.
“We don’t know whom to believe, because Ebrard doesn’t give us the details and Trump isn’t very trustworthy. It’s also clear he’s using Mexico as part of his re-election campaign,” political analyst Jose Antonio Crespo told AFP.
No 46th day
For now, Ebrard says he is focused on making sure Mexico dramatically curbs the northward flow of migrants before the deadline.
He told a press conference Mexico will complete its promised deployment of 6,000 National Guardsmen to its southern border by Tuesday, and that 825 additional immigration officers will start work this weekend.






House Judiciary Committee chairman Jerry Nadler had wanted Mueller to testify on May 15, but he said a date for the highly anticipated appearance before lawmakers remained under discussion.
“It won’t be next week,” Nadler told reporters. “But we’re negotiating with him, we’re talking to him and the Justice Department.”
Nadler has said that the committee would subpoena Mueller if necessary but expressed hope that such a step could be avoided.
Nadler’s comments came two days after his committee — the panel empowered to initiate impeachment proceedings against a president — voted along party lines to recommend that Attorney General William Barr be held in contempt of Congress for refusing to turn over the unredacted Mueller report and its underlying evidence.
Mueller has said that Barr, in his own four-page summary of the report, mischaracterized the nature and substance of the investigation’s conclusions, which resulted in “public confusion” about the findings.
That dispute and Barr’s refusal to provide the special counsel’s full report has intensified congressional interest in hearing from Mueller himself.
Barr has said he does not object to Mueller testifying to lawmakers.
President Donald Trump, whose campaign was accused by Democrats of colluding with Moscow, has flip-flopped on the issue.
He has gone from saying he would not object to Mueller testifying, to tweeting on Sunday that “Bob Mueller should not testify.”
He reversed himself again Thursday, saying “I’m going to leave that up to our very great attorney general, and he’ll make the decision on that.”
Chinese telecoms giant Huawei is preparing a legal counterpunch against new moves by American regulators to bar the company from accessing $8.5 billion in US federal funds for services and equipment, a report said Friday.
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) last week branded Huawei and its Chinese rival ZTE as threats to US national security and blocked them from the fund.
It also proposed that other service providers be required to cancel or replace existing services and equipment from the companies.
Huawei plans to file a lawsuit in the United States next week, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified sources.
A Huawei spokeswoman declined to comment but the company has invited AFP and other media to its headquarters in the southern city of Shenzhen next Thursday for an unspecified announcement.
FCC Chairman Ajit Pai said in a statement explaining the latest move that Huawei and ZTE “have close ties to China’s communist government and military apparatus.”
In a statement last week, Huawei said the FCC decision was “based on selective information, innuendo and mistaken assumptions” and that blocking access to the fund will hurt American consumers.
The Universal Service Fund is used to subsidise telecommunication services and equipment mainly in rural areas of the United States, a market where Huawei gear has established a presence despite the growing US pressure on the company.
President Donald Trump moved in May to block American companies from doing business with Huawei, which US officials accuse of violating US sanctions on Iran.
Trump has since offered temporary reprieves for Huawei to allow service providers covering remote rural areas time to comply with the ban, US officials say.
ZTE came close to collapse last year after American companies were prevented from selling it vital components over its continued dealings with Iran and North Korea.
Trump later allowed ZTE to resume imports under tough conditions.
Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who is also the daughter of the company’s founder and CEO, was arrested in Canada last year and is now fighting extradition to the United States on fraud and conspiracy charges tied to US sanctions.
The two sides agreed to have “preliminary contact” on October 4 and hold working-level negotiations the following day, the North’s vice foreign minister Choe Son Hui said in a statement carried by the official Korean Central News Agency.
“It is my expectation that the working-level negotiations would accelerate the positive development of the DPRK-US relations,” she added without disclosing the talks’ venue.
North Korean officials were “ready” to enter the discussions, she said. There was no immediate confirmation from the American side.
Negotiations between Pyongyang and Washington have been gridlocked since a second summit between North Korea’s Kim Jong Un and President Donald Trump in February ended without a deal.
The two agreed to restart working-level dialogue during an impromptu meeting at the Demilitarized Zone dividing the two Koreas in June, but the North’s anger at a US refusal to cancel joint military deals with South Korea placed the process on hold.
Relations thawed last month after Trump fired his hawkish national security advisor John Bolton, who Pyongyang had repeatedly denounced as a warmonger.
North Korea’s chief negotiator also responded positively to Trump’s suggestion that the two sides try a “new method” of approaching their discussions.
Trump had criticised Bolton’s suggestion of the “Libyan model” for North Korea, a reference to a denuclearisation deal with the African nation’s former dictator Moamer Kadhafi — who was killed after being deposed in 2011.
Pyongyang had bristled at that comment, which Trump said had “set us back very badly”.
Despite the gridlock, Pyongyang has continued to praise Trump, calling him “bold” and “wise”.
 Consensus reached? 
Analysts say Bolton’s dismissal from the White House could have helped Pyongyang’s decision to come to the table.
South Korea’s presidential Blue House welcomed the resumption of dialogue between the North and the US.
“We hope to see the realisation of practical steps towards permanent peace regime and complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula through the upcoming talks,” said spokeswoman Ko Min-jung.
The announcement on the new talks could be an “indication” that the two sides have narrowed their differences behind the scenes, said Koh Yu-hwan, professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul.
“The North has demanded security guarantee in return for denuclearisation measures and called on the US to come up with ‘new calculation’, he said.
“Consensus between the two might have been reached regarding the matter in the lead-up to the Tuesday announcement,” he added.
"We judge on acts, not declarations or intentions. When we see progress, then we can say that something has changed."
President Trump on Tuesday announced the firing of Bolton, a foreign policy hawk with whom he had disagreed on a number of issues including Iran and North Korea.
Relations between Moscow and Washington, at their lowest level since the end of the Cold War, have been battered by differences over Ukraine and accusations of Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential elections.
US President Donald Trump on Monday branded Democrats a “disgrace” for holding impeachment proceedings while he attends a NATO summit in Britain and rejected participating in what he called “a hoax.”
House Democrats are due to move forward this week with their case to make the real estate mogul only the third president ever to be impeached.
The House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday at which experts will weigh whether Trump’s alleged wrongdoing in pressuring Ukraine to investigate domestic political foe Joe Biden meets the constitutional bar for impeachment.
“The Democrats, the radical-left Democrats, the do-nothing Democrats, decided when I’m going to NATO — this was set up a year ago — that when I’m going to NATO, that was the exact time,” Trump said angrily on departing the White House.
“It’s an absolute disgrace what they’re doing to our country,” he said before his plane touched down in London.
“The whole thing is a hoax. Everybody knows it.”
Trump’s chief White House lawyer, Pat Cipollone, told the Democratic leader of the Judiciary Committee, Jerry Nadler, on Sunday that he was rejecting an invitation to send representatives to the session.
“We cannot fairly be expected to participate… while it remains unclear whether the Judiciary Committee will afford the President a fair process through additional hearings,” Cipollone wrote.
Cipollone did not rule out White House participation in subsequent hearings. Throughout the drama, however, Trump has opted for stone-walling and flat-out resistance to what his supporters say amounts to a “coup.”
Nadler told the White House on Monday that if “there is nothing to hide,” then Trump should cooperate and “provide any exculpatory information that refutes the overwhelming evidence of his abuse of power.”
 Trump touts Zelensky interview 
Trump got a boost Monday from an interview in which Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky insisted he had not come under pressure from Trump.
The US president is accused of brazenly holding up hundreds of millions of dollars of military aid to Ukraine to force Zelensky to announce a politically embarrassing probe into Biden, one of the lead Democrats challenging Trump for the presidency in 2020.
A stream of high-level diplomats and several White House officials have testified in Congress about Trump’s back-channel communications with Zelensky.
But Zelensky said Monday that he’d not been forced into anything.
“I did not speak with US President Trump in those terms: ‘you give me this, I give you that,'” Zelensky said in an interview with several publications, including Germany’s Der Spiegel magazine.
Trump says he was right to raise his concerns over alleged corruption by Biden and his son Hunter, who was controversially named to the board of a Ukrainian energy company accused of corrupt practices.
And he repeatedly echoed the Zelensky interview on Monday, saying “the Ukrainian president came out and said very strongly that President Trump did absolutely nothing wrong.”
“That should be case over,” Trump said.
 GOP strikes back 
Democratic lawmakers say that Zelensky, a neophyte politician facing armed conflict with Russia, was desperate to please Trump from the outset and remains unable to speak his mind for fear of losing support.
The House Intelligence Committee and its Democratic leader Adam Schiff has led the impeachment charge from the start.
The committee is expected to approve its investigation report on Tuesday in a closed-door vote set for 6:00 pm (2300 GMT).
Trump’s Republican backers on the intelligence committee on Monday released a 110-page rebuttal of the Democrats’s case.
“The evidence does not establish any impeachable offense,” it said.
Shortly after landing in Britain, Trump tweeted: “Great job! Radical Left has NO CASE.”
 Top Trump officials claim immunity 
The House Judiciary Committee is expected to consider at least four articles of impeachment, including abuse of power, bribery, contempt of Congress and obstruction of justice.
A full vote in the Democratic-led House is currently expected before Christmas, before a trial next year in the Republican-dominated Senate — where acquittal is seen as all-but-assured.
Democrats say they want to hear from former national security adviser John Bolton, acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. All three are believed to have direct knowledge of Trump’s actions toward Ukraine.
So far they have refused to testify, claiming “absolute immunity” as confidants of the president.
But as the Judiciary Committee hearings unfold, the White House may yet decide to send representatives to get their message across in what will likely be combative and at times raucous live television events.
“We’ll see where the process goes,” senior Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said on Fox News.
She said the Democrats were inventing the entire scandal because “they have no idea how to beat him in 2020. They fear he will be re-elected.”
As Mexican officials shuttled through Washington for last-ditch talks to avoid punitive tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars in goods, Trump doubled down with his threats — and said Republicans would be “foolish” to try and stop him.
Trump has vowed that five-percent tariffs on all imports from its southern neighbor would begin June 10, and reach 25 percent in the fall unless Mexico dramatically reduces the flow of undocumented migrants, mainly from Central America, to the US border.
Such levies would be “catastrophic,’ a leading Mexican cross-border business group warned.
With tensions running high, Senate Republicans made clear they were considering a brazen legislative move to block the tariffs, and delivered an earful to White House officials explaining Trump’s position at a closed-door Senate lunch.
“There is not much support in my conference for tariffs, that’s for sure,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell after the meeting.
Asked if Trump’s administration should be concerned about the threat of a disapproval vote to block the tariffs, Senator Ron Johnson told reporters: “If I were the White House I would be, sure. I made that point.”
But McConnell declined to say outright whether his party would draft a measure to block Trump’s duties from taking effect, in what would be the most dramatic act of Republican defiance since Trump took office in 2017.
“Apparently these (US-Mexico) talks are going well and I think our hope is that the tariffs will be avoided and we’ll not have to answer any hypothetical,” McConnell said.
Trump re-emphasized his threats during a state visit to Britain, bluntly saying it was “more likely” than not that the tariffs would go into effect next week.
“Mexico should step up and stop this onslaught, this invasion into our country,” Trump said at a joint press conference with outgoing British Prime Minister Theresa May.
Mexico’s President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador — who has sought to avoid a confrontation with a longstanding ally — shrugged off Trump’s combative rhetoric and said he was prepared to meet with his counterpart to defuse the crisis.
“It’s likely we will reach an agreement, and we are going to continue insisting that talks are the way to go,” said the leftist leader, who took office in December.
Meanwhile, Mexico’s National Council of Export Manufacturing and Assembly Industries (IMEX) warned the tariffs would have severe effects if they are put in place.
“Five percent would be critical. If it goes to 10 percent, it would be catastrophic. And from there on up, we’d be in crisis,” said Pedro Chavira, the head of IMEX in the border city of Ciudad Juarez, capital of Mexico’s booming export industry.
Speaking in Washington ahead of talks between Mexican officials and US trade representative Robert Lighthizer, Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard said he predicted an “80 percent” chance of success in negotiating a way out.
‘Resistance’ 
Ebrard came to Washington armed with data, arguing steps already taken by Mexico would prevent an additional 250,000 migrants from reaching the US border by the end of 2019.
He said these steps ranged from letting US asylum seekers remain in Mexico while their applications are reviewed, to offering them work permits in southern Mexican states.
A US administration official meanwhile confirmed that Vice President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo would hold further talks with Ebrard Wednesday at the White House.
Trump’s shock tariff announcement pummeled the Mexican currency and sent markets in both countries tumbling over fears of a sharp slowdown in trade and high prices for imported goods on both sides of the border.
But US markets closed higher Tuesday, buoyed in part by Republicans signaling significant opposition to Trump’s plan — which they warn could scuttle the massive free trade agreement being finalized between Mexico, the United States and Canada.
The new deal, called USMCA and set to replace the longstanding NAFTA, is in the process of ratification.
Trump brushed aside the clash, saying he did not believe Republicans would follow through with blocking his tariffs.
“If they do, it’s foolish,” he said. “I’ve had tremendous Republican support.”
But several of his allies insisted Trump must reverse course.
Senator Ted Cruz, a conservative Trump ally and fierce advocate for stronger action to reduce illegal immigration at the southern US border, said lawmakers expressed “deep concern and resistance to imposing tariffs on trade with Mexico because it will hurt American jobs.”
In unusually forceful language against a Trump initiative, Cruz said he expressed his concerns “very directly” with the White House, saying tit-for-tat tariffs could cripple the Texas economy with the equivalent of $30 billion in taxes.






The surprise lunch appeared to be an attempt by Macron to get the summit off on a good footing after a tense build-up in which Trump and EU leaders traded threats of trade war.
Speaking to reporters in fluent English, Macron called Trump “a very special guest”.
He said that they would be discussing a raft of pressing international issues, including the standoff with Iran over its alleged nuclear weapon ambitions, and stressed that “strong coordination” was needed.
Trump met that appeal for unity with a somewhat softer approach of his own, having left the United States on Friday with a dire warning about taxing French wines “like they’ve never seen before”.
“We actually have a lot in common,” Trump said across the table to Macron, adding that they had “been friends for a long time.”
Trump said that at times they “go at each other a little bit” but had a “special relationship”.
The setting for the G7 summit in the French seaside resort clearly pleased the US president.
“So far so good. The weather is perfect. Everybody’s getting along. I think we will accomplish a lot this weekend,” he said.






According to new reports, the reality TV star and entrepreneur alongside her legal team have helped 17 prisoners gain freedom over the last three months. It is also learnt that each of the freed inmates has served years of life sentences without parole for low-level drug offenses.
It would be recalled that Kardashian’s lawyer, Brittany K. Barnett in partnership with lawyer MiAngel Cody of The Decarceration Collective launched a 90 Days of Freedom campaign. The campaign puts the First Step Act signed by President Donald Trump in 2018 to work for prisoners who received Draconian sentences.
The famous Kardashian it is gathered has been secretly footing the bill over the past few months while Barnett, who also co-founded the Buried Alive advocacy group, and Cody handle the lawyering. We’re told Kim’s been secretly funding the campaign over the past few months.
In recent times, Kim Kardashian has been able to secure the release of the following:
Keep up the good work Kimmy!
While there is little sign of any Republican mounting a serious challenge to Trump’s re-election bid in the primaries, Democrats are seeking to force the US president to hand over his financial documents.
“These are extraordinary times and states have a legal and moral duty to do everything in their power to ensure leaders seeking the highest offices meet minimal standards,” said Democratic Governor Gavin Newsom in a statement as he signed the bill.
The law, which took immediate effect on Tuesday, does not mention Trump by name.
But the US president famously broke with tradition and refused to release his tax returns when he ran in 2016.
The legislation comes at a time when Democratic lawmakers have opened investigations focused on Trump’s tax returns as well as matters related to Russian efforts to sway the 2016 election.
“The disclosure required by this bill will shed light on conflicts of interest, self-dealing, or influence from domestic and foreign business interest,” said Newsom. 
The California law means any candidate for US president must file five years’ worth of tax returns in order to contest primary elections in the country’s most populous state. The bill was passed by California’s heavily Democratic legislature last month.
It appears only to affect candidates running in their parties’ primary votes, not the November 2020 poll itself.
But in an April survey indicating that others could be mulling parallel moves, the National Conference of State Legislatures found that 17 state legislatures had already introduced similar new bills this year. 
In seven of those states, decisions are currently pending, including New York, New Jersey and Illinois.
A similar attempt in California in 2017 was vetoed by then-governor Jerry Brown, another Democrat. He expressed concern about the precedent that set requirements for candidates could create.
Trump’s campaign staff on Tuesday said state laws on presidential candidates’ eligibility were unconstitutional.
“The Constitution is clear on the qualifications for someone to serve as president and states cannot add additional requirements on their own,” Tim Murtaugh, communications director for Trump’s reelection campaign, said in a statement to the LA Times. 
Jay Sekulow, counsel to the president, said California’s law “will be answered in court,” according to US media reports.
But Harvard law professor and constitutional scholar Laurence Tribe said the bill “should survive the predictable constitutional challenge.”
“California isn’t adding any requirements for the presidency — which it couldn’t do — but just ensuring that its voters are fully informed about all aspirants,” he tweeted.
Trump announced her exit in a tweet and did not name a replacement.
“After 3 1/2 years, our wonderful Sarah Huckabee Sanders will be leaving the White House at the end of the month and going home to the Great State of Arkansas,” Trump said, adding that he hoped she would run for governor of her state.
Sharp, sometimes acid-tongued, Sanders has not been prone to the almost comic slip-ups that embarrassed predecessors in the job, such as short-lived Trump spokesman Anthony Scaramucci.
But she has earned a reputation for bruising clashes with journalists whom she finds over-critical — often echoing her boss’s attacks on unfavorable coverage as “Fake News.”
At a White House event Thursday on reintegration into society for ex-prisoners, Trump interrupted proceedings to summon the “warrior” Sanders from the audience and lavish praise on her record.
Calling her “a friend, a woman, a great, great magnificent person,” Trump said, “she’s very popular.”
In fact, Sanders, 36, has a sometimes bitter relationship with the White House press corps and is seen as responsible for the demise of the formal daily briefing — practically an institution under previous presidents.
Pressed during one particularly combative briefing to distance herself from Trump’s characterization of the media as the “enemy of the people,” Sanders refused.
The last time she took to the podium for a back-and-forth with reporters in the White House briefing room was March 11. Instead, she communicates largely through interviews on the president’s favourite TV network Fox News and short, informal briefings with other journalists outdoors.
She has also been accused of telling repeated lies to reporters, although she denies this.
Despite Sanders’ damaged reputation in media circles, there had been no hint from the administration that her exit was imminent.
Sanders’ father Mike Huckabee is a former Republican governor of Arkansas, making her something of a member of conservative royalty.
Her departure comes the same day a US watchdog agency recommended Trump fire White House counsellor Kellyanne Conway, saying the close aide to President Donald Trump repeatedly violated a law restricting political activity during her official work.
 No tears 
Called up to the microphone by Trump at the ex-prisoners’ event, a visibly emotional Sanders said she would “try not to get emotional because I know crying can make us look weak.”
In a brief address, the spokeswoman praised Trump and her colleagues at the White House, saying she “loved every minute” of the job.
“I’m going to continue to be one of the most outspoken and loyal supporters of the president and his agenda and I know he’s going to have an incredible six more years and get a lot more done,” she said.
She made no mention of the media or the role of journalists at the White House.
Although Sanders is often blamed for the White House’s killing off of the press briefing, she has been serving a president who from the start decided to tear up the media playbook.
With Trump communicating directly via Twitter and other social media to tens of millions of people every day, the traditional role of a press office putting out statements has become partly redundant.
And while journalists now rarely hold the administration’s feet to the fire in the calm, organized setting of the briefing room, they have extraordinary access to Trump himself.
The president holds his own impromptu weekly briefings in the Oval Office or out on the South Lawn before boarding his Marine One helicopter. In contrast to real press conferences, these occasions can be chaotic and are rarely carried on live television.
Sanders may not speak much, but she is always there — in the background.
President Donald Trump said Thursday the US had resumed talks with Taliban insurgents as he made a surprise trip to Afghanistan to celebrate the Thanksgiving holiday with troops.
On a brief visit to Bagram Airfield outside the capital Kabul, Trump served turkey dinner to soldiers, posed for photographs and delivered a speech after meeting Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
“The Taliban wants to make a deal and we’re meeting with them and we’re saying it has to be a ceasefire,” he told reporters.
About 13,000 US troops remain in Afghanistan, 18 years after the United States invaded after the September 11, 2001 attacks. Trump said he planned to reduce the number to 8,600 without giving further details.
“There’s nowhere I’d rather celebrate this Thanksgiving than right here with the toughest, strongest, best and bravest warriors on the face of the earth,” the president, who was making his first trip to the war-torn country, told the troops.
“I’ve just come from serving Thanksgiving dinner to some of you… and we had a good time.”
Trump joked that he had just started eating when he was called away, and didn’t even get to taste his turkey.
“I should’ve started with that, instead of the mashed potatoes,” he said.
“But I hope everyone enjoyed the fantastic meal, it certainly did look good and hopefully everyone can get some well-deserved rest this holiday.”
America’s longest war
The United States earlier this year reached a deal with Taliban insurgents to pull US troops from Afghanistan and wind down America’s longest war in return for security guarantees.
But Trump made a shock move in September, describing the year-long talks as “dead” and withdrawing an invitation to the insurgents to meet near Washington due to the killing of a US soldier.
The Taliban refuses to negotiate formally with the Afghan government, though diplomatic efforts have continued to foster dialogue and an eventual peace deal.
Trump said Thursday the war in Afghanistan “will not be decided on the battlefield” and that “ultimately there will need to be a political solution” decided by people in the region.
The US president has often vowed to pull out of the US’s “endless wars,” and he is keen to withdraw many troops from Afghanistan ahead of the November 2020 election when he faces a tough battle to win a second term.
Afghanistan remains roiled by violence, and US presidents are still only able to make fleeting, unannounced visits to Bagram — the biggest US base in the country — due to the security threat.
Ghani, who was only given a few hours’ notice about the visit, thanked Trump for pushing for “the type of peace that will ensure the gains of the past year and ensure your security and our security.”
The Taliban last week handed over two hostages — an American and an Australian — after three years in captivity in exchange for three high-ranking insurgent prisoners, a move seen as a boost to peace talks.
Friction with US military leaders
Back in Washington, Trump’s relations with the US military leadership have recently soured over his repeated interference in high-profile discipline cases.
Trump reversed the demotion of Navy SEAL Edward Gallagher who was accused of war crimes but only found guilty of a lesser offense.
Gallagher’s cause had been championed by Fox News and Trump’s conservative base.
The case drew sharp criticism from the top brass concerned that the president was undermining military judicial process.
Trump this month also dismissed a murder conviction against a soldier who ordered his men to fire on three unarmed Afghans in 2012.
And he granted clemency to another soldier charged with murder over the death of an alleged Taliban bomb-maker in 2010.
Before taking the secret 13-hour flight to Afghanistan, Trump had been expected to spend Thanksgiving at his Mar-a-Lago residence in Florida and to make video calls to US troops deployed abroad.
The White House scheduled tweets that were sent from the president’s account during the flight when he did not have access to the internet.






An irate Donald Trump said Friday he welcomes the prospect of an impeachment trial, as the US leader lashed out at “crazy” and “corrupt” opponents probing potential abuse of presidential power.
After a week of dramatic impeachment testimony from current and former administration officials, an embattled Trump took to a favorite broadcaster to air a long, occasionally incoherent list of grievances — against the FBI, his political adversaries, impeachment inquiry leaders, the “deep state,” and more.
“These people are sick,” Trump raged down the telephone line to Fox at the start of a 53-minute tirade that showed how angered and unsettled he has been by an impeachment inquiry that threatens his presidency.
Multiple witnesses, in often damning testimony under oath, buttressed charges the president conditioned much-needed military aid and a coveted White House meeting on Ukraine investigating his political rivals.
But with many Republicans seemingly unmoved, Trump bashed the testimony as “total nonsense” and said he relished the chance to defend himself.
“Frankly, I want a trial,” Trump told morning show Fox and Friends.
The House Intelligence Committee has not formally concluded its role in the inquiry, possibly waiting for a court ruling on Monday that could empower members to force senior Trump aides to testify.
But Democrats appear determined to hold an impeachment vote in the House of Representatives by the end of the year, which could see Trump go on trial in the Senate in January.
Removing him from office would require conviction by a two-thirds majority in the Republican-controlled upper chamber.
‘Crazy as a bedbug’ 
The increasing prospect of becoming only the third US president formally impeached, after Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, has riled the brash New York billionaire, and he fired off multiple attacks against rivals leading the effort.
His main Democratic nemesis in Congress, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, is “crazy as a bedbug” for pressing a “scam” impeachment, he fumed.
House Intelligence Committee chairman Adam Schiff, who has presided over the public phase of the inquiry? A “nutjob” and a “sick puppy” who should be sued for having “lied” about the president’s “flawless” Ukraine call, Trump added.
Trump was quick to say he “hardly” knows several of the witnesses, including his own ambassador to the European Union Gordon Sondland, who said Trump sought a quid pro quo from Ukraine.
But he rushed to the defense of his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, who has emerged in many accounts as having orchestrated the shadow policy to pressure Ukraine.
“Rudy is a great crime fighter,” Trump said, giving an unqualified endorsement to one of the most controversial figures in the Ukraine saga.
“He is a friend of mine. He is a great person, an iconic figure in this country,” he said of the former New York major.
Trump also repeated the conspiracy theory that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in the 2016 US election — just a day after a former National Security Council expert, Fiona Hill, denounced that in testimony as a “fictional narrative” advanced by Russia to harm the United States.
“They have the server from the DNC — Democratic National Committee,” Trump said of Ukraine, claiming that Democrats gave the computer to “a company owned by a very wealthy Ukrainian.”
The claim appeared to alarm Fox hosts, including Steve Doocy.
“Are you sure they gave it to Ukraine?” a skeptical Doocy asked Trump.
“That’s what the word is, and that’s what I asked actually in my phone call,” Trump responded, referring to his July 25 conversation with Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky at the heart of the impeachment inquiry.
Trump mentioned his political rival Joe Biden to Zelensky and pressed the new president to investigate a Ukrainian firm where Biden’s son worked while his father was vice president.
Democrats argue that Trump’s demand that a foreign leader investigate his potential adversary in the 2020 presidential election is impeachable conduct.
Trump has said he was merely pressing Ukraine to ramp up its anti-corruption efforts. But he also claims the Bidens were involved in corruption.
There is no evidence to back up the assertion, but Trump nonetheless repeated it on Fox, saying “you have to say Joe Biden is corrupt.”
Biden, who leads the Democratic 2020 nomination race, has said Trump has smeared him with corruption allegations because he fears a Biden candidacy.
Polls show American voters believe Biden would have the best shot at defeating Trump.
But Trump seized on polling released this week that shows him winning in hypothetical matchups against Biden and other Democrats in battleground Wisconsin, a state Trump flipped in 2016 but which Democrats aim to retake.
“I’m going through the roof,” Trump boasted.






The unsourced report in the New York Times said officials hope the nuclear freeze idea might create a foundation for a new round of negotiations.
The development came after Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un met in the Demilitarized Zone Sunday and agreed to resume working-level talks within weeks on the North’s nuclear program.
Kim and Trump shook hands over the borderline at Panmunjom, the truce village that divides the peninsula, and Trump then walked a few paces into North Korean territory — the first US president ever to do so.
The Times said the nuclear freeze concept, which has been taking shape within the Trump administration for weeks, “essentially enshrines the status quo, and tacitly accepts the North as a nuclear power.”
In a tweet, Bolton said he had read the story “with curiosity.”
“Neither the NSC staff nor I have discussed or heard of any desire to ‘settle for a nuclear freeze by NK.’ This was a reprehensible attempt by someone to box in the President. There should be consequences,” he wrote.
The US has insisted on North Korea’s complete denuclearization as a condition for lifting punishing US sanctions.
Failure to reach an agreement over sanctions relief and what the North was willing to give in return led to the collapse of the US and North Korean leaders’ second summit, which was held in February in Hanoi.
(FILES) In this file photo US President Donald Trump delivers remarks on honesty and transparency in healthcare prices at the White House in Washington, DC on November 15, 2019. – President Donald Trump faces more potentially damning testimony in the Ukraine scandal as a critical week of public impeachment hearings opens Tuesday in the House of Representatives. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Trump, 73, spent just over an hour on Saturday having “examinations, labs and discussions” at the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, his physician Sean Conley said in a statement issued by the White House.
“Despite some of the speculation, the President has not had any chest pain, nor was he evaluated or treated for any urgent or acute issues,” Conley said.
“Specifically, he did not undergo any specialized cardiac or neurologic evaluations.”
Some Washington reports had suggested that the checkup was unscheduled and had been triggered by Trump suffering chest discomfort.
“Due to scheduling uncertainties, the trip was kept off the record,” Conley said, describing the checkup as “routine, planned.”
The statement included details of the president’s cholesterol results and added that after the checkup, Trump had spoken to the family of a soldier undergoing surgery at the hospital as well as to hospital staff.
White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham on Saturday said Trump took advantage of a free weekend to complete part of his annual physical examination before “a very busy 2020” when he faces a tough re-election race.
 ‘Mysterious hospital visit’? 
On Monday, the Washington Post ran an editorial casting doubt on the official reason for the medical examination.
Under the headline “Trump’s mysterious hospital visit raises many questions,” the paper said that US citizens had the right to know about their president’s health and if it impacted his work.
“Wasn’t his last checkup in February?” the paper asked.
“When did his annual physical become a phased affair? Why was Saturday’s visit, unlike previous checkups, not announced or listed on his public schedule?”
On Sunday, the day after the checkup, Trump tweeted that he had started his annual physical examination — reporting “everything very good (great!)”
He added that he would complete the examination next year.
At Trump’s last routine examination in February, Conley had declared him to be in “very good health.”
Trump, who has confounded health experts with his penchant for junk food and avoidance of strenuous exercise, weighed 243 pounds (110 kg) at that time.
In 2018, Trump’s then-chief physician, Ronny Jackson, held an unusually detailed press conference in which he declared Trump to have “incredibly good genes.”
Soon afterwards, Trump appointed him to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs, before Jackson withdrew his name from consideration.
Defying European warnings on the long-festering property issue, Trump rolled back much of previous president Barack Obama’s bid to reconcile with Cuba and also imposed fresh sanctions on Venezuela and Nicaragua, the two other hard-left nations in Latin America.
John Bolton, Trump’s hawkish national security advisor, said the measures were meant to “reverse the consequences of disastrous Obama-era policies and finally end the glamorization of socialism and communism.”
“We’re standing with the freedom-loving patriots of this region,” Bolton said in Miami as he addressed veterans of the Bay of Pigs invasion, the failed CIA-backed 1961 bid by exiles to topple the Cuban regime.
Bolton said the United States would bar Americans from travelling to Cuba except to visit family, reversing the loosening under Obama that had started to open the cash-strapped island to US tourism.
Bolton also announced restrictions under which no individual can remit more than $1,000 per quarter to Cuba, pledging: “These new measures will help steer American dollars away from the Cuban regime.”
 ‘Failed communist experiment’ 
The hard-hitting speech came hours after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the United States would forge ahead with a long-delayed law that allows Cuban Americans to take businesses and the Havana government itself to court over properties seized after Fidel Castro’s 1959 revolution.
Passed by Congress in 1996 with support from Cuban-American hardliners, the provision of the Helms-Burton Act will finally go into effect on May 2 after being systematically suspended every six months by successive presidents. 
“Those doing business in Cuba should fully investigate whether they are connected to property stolen in service of a failed communist experiment,” Pompeo told reporters in Washington.
“I encourage our friends and allies alike to follow our lead and stand with the Cuban people,” he said.
But the European Union and Canada, whose vigorous protests helped block the Helms-Burton Act from coming into force two decades ago, swiftly condemned the move.
“The EU and Canada consider the extraterritorial application of unilateral Cuba-related measures contrary to international law,” the EU’s foreign affairs supremo Federica Mogherini and Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom said in a joint statement with Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland.
In a letter to Pompeo ahead of the announcement that was seen by AFP, Mogherini and Malmstrom warned that the European Union “will be obliged to use all means at its disposal” and warned of action at the World Trade Organization.
Mexico, meanwhile, said it would support any of its companies targeted by the legislation, with the foreign ministry saying in a statement: “In this sense, Mexico endorses its support for the end of the economic and commercial blockade imposed against Cuba.”
Cuban Foreign Minister Bruno Rodriguez denounced the decision on Twitter as “an attack against International Law and the sovereignty of #Cuba & third States.”
Kimberly Breier, the top US diplomat for Latin America, said the United States would not issue any exemptions to the new law, as it has in previous controversial decisions such as its sanctions on Iran.
But Breier said businesses would only be affected if they operated in properties seized from Cubans who have emigrated to the United States.
“I think the vast number of European companies will not have any concerns operating in Cuba,” she said.
But the costs — and hours in Florida’s courts — could still be overwhelming. The Justice Department in 1996 took note of 6,000 potential claims that reach $1.9 billion, but a US official said the number could be as high as 200,000.
 U-turn in policy 
The decisions mark a sharp reversal from the policies of Obama, who normalized relations with Cuba through secret diplomacy aided by the Vatican, declaring that a half-century of efforts to topple the regime had failed.
Ahead of elections next year, Trump has increasingly tried to cast himself as a foe of socialism and tried to link the US Democratic Party, with its support of higher minimum wages and wider health care access, to Venezuela’s crumbling economy.
In the latest action to topple Venezuela’s leftist President Nicolas Maduro by cutting off his cash flow, the Treasury Department imposed sanctions on the central bank and its director.
Maduro branded the move “totally illegal and immoral.”
Representative Eliot Engel, the Democrat who heads the House Foreign Affairs Committee, called the decision on Cuba property lawsuits a “self-inflicted wound” that would isolate the United States just as it was working with allies on Venezuela.
The power struggle between Trump — accused of leaning on Ukraine’s president to dig up dirt on one of his main 2020 election rivals — and congressional Democrats entered ever more volatile territory.
Adam Schiff, the Democrat leading the impeachment probe in the lower chamber of Congress, told reporters there is a “real sense of urgency” to press forward.
Trump fought back with language that would once have been inconceivable for a president, including his claim late Tuesday on Twitter that this is “not an impeachment, it is a COUP.”
On Wednesday he tweeted that Schiff was “sick” and should resign. Earlier, he had called for Schiff’s arrest.
Trump insists that he did nothing wrong in a phone call with Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelensky and on Wednesday got support from Russia’s President Vladimir Putin, who said he saw “nothing compromising” in the conversation.
Given Trump’s controversial history with Putin, it was unlikely that the Kremlin leader’s backing would do much to calm waters back in Washington.
After keeping pronouncements mostly to Twitter over the last week, Trump was due to give a news conference alongside visiting Finnish President Sauli Niinisto.
He may also talk to journalists earlier when Niinisto arrives at around midday in Washington (1600 GMT).
– Congress pushes back –
Trump is accused of having pressured Zelensky to help him by opening a corruption investigation against leading Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden in a July 25 phone call. 
He is alleged to have suggested that military equipment Ukraine sought to beef up its defenses against Russia would be contingent on him getting that favour.
A whistleblower, so far only identified as someone from the intelligence services, went to the authorities with concerns about the phone call, triggering the impeachment inquiry.
Trump has likened the whistleblower to a spy and called for his or her identity to be made public, although by law whistleblowers are protected. He has also retweeted a warning that his removal from office could trigger “civil war.”
Schiff on Wednesday called Trump’s comments about the whistleblower a “blatant effort to intimidate witnesses.”
The State Department’s inspector general was due to brief congressional committees Wednesday on what it said were documents “related to the State Department and Ukraine.”
It was not clear what that would entail, but the State Department is closely caught up in the probe, with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo confirming Wednesday previous reports that he listened in during the Zelensky call.
Earlier, Pompeo meanwhile accused Democrats of trying to “intimidate” and “bully” State Department employees. Democrats said he was “stonewalling” their investigation.
– First testimony –
Pompeo and Trump’s controversial personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani has been subpoenaed to provide documents. Five diplomats have so far been summoned to testify.
Pompeo suggested that the committees could be forced to subpoena the five officials and that the State Department and White House could seek to limit what they can talk about.
“I will use all means at my disposal to prevent and expose any attempts to intimidate the dedicated professionals whom I am proud to lead,” Pompeo said.
News reports said the State Department’s former special envoy to Ukraine, Kurt Volker, would testify Thursday and that the ex-ambassador to Kiev, Marie Yovanovitch, would appear behind closed doors on October 11.
Volker had been sought by Giuliani to help pressure Zelensky, while Yovanovitch was removed earlier this year as ambassador after she reportedly resisted that effort.
Pompeo himself risks greater pressure after the Democratic heads of the three investigating congressional committees said his being in on the phone call made him “a fact witness.”
The Democrats say that subpoenas could also be issued to force White House compliance with their demands for documentation.
“We’re not fooling around here,” Schiff said.
“We don’t want this to drag on months and months and months, which appears to be the administration’s strategy.”
The visit comes after Trump exchanged letters with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, who said the US president’s letter to him had “excellent content”, according to the North’s state-run media Sunday.
Trump received a missive from Kim earlier this month and called it a “beautiful letter”.
The letter exchange comes after their second summit in Hanoi in February ended without an agreement — on sanctions relief and what the North might give up in return — and since then the negotiation process has stalled, with minimal contact.
Kim last week hosted Chinese President Xi Jinping for two days of fanfare in Pyongyang — the first visit by a Chinese president in 14 years — showcasing a decades-old alliance they called “invincible” and “forged in blood”.
Analysts say Xi’s meeting with Kim — ahead of talks with Trump on the sidelines of the G20 summit — is intended to demonstrate and reinforce Beijing’s influence in the North, which is heavily reliant economically on its neighbour.
Ko Min-jung, the spokeswoman for the South’s presidential Blue House, said Moon and Trump “will have an in-depth discussion exploring ways to establish a permanent peace regime through complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula”.
US officials generally refer more specifically to the “denuclearisation of North Korea”.
A South Korean government official told reporters that Trump was “considering” a visit to the DMZ — but that there were no plans for a three-way summit between the US president and the leaders of the two Koreas.
It will be the eighth meeting between Moon and Trump, who last visited his security ally in November 2017, when he tried to go to the DMZ but was forced to turn back by thick fog.
“Trump will certainly visit the DMZ if the weather permits because it is the site where the easing of military tensions between the two Koreas can be witnessed directly,” Koh Yu-hwan, professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul, told AFP.
“Visiting the DMZ could reaffirm the importance of (the) denuclearisation process.”
But he said it would be “astonishing” if the US and North Korean leaders were to meet in the DMZ, given the “standstill in nuclear talks”.
Rashid al-Malik received tens of thousands of dollars a month for gleaning information on Trump administration policy toward the Middle East in 2017, the website said, citing a former US official and documents.
He reported back to the UAE’s National Intelligence Service on topics of interest to the oil-producing Gulf state — including US efforts to mediate a Gulf feud involving Qatar — as well as meetings between US officials and Saudi Arabia’s powerful Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, The Intercept said.
Late last year, The New York Times and Wall Street Journal reported that US federal prosecutors were investigating whether foreigners illegally funnelled donations to Trump’s inaugural committee and a pro-Trump fundraising super PAC.
Al-Malik, chairman of the investment firm Hayah Holdings, was interviewed by special counsel Robert Muller’s office as part of the probe, according to the New York Times.
The Times cited people familiar with the inquiry as saying it focused on whether people from Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates used straw donors to make contributions in the hope of buying influence over US policy.  
The report was denied by al-Malik’s lawyer, who told The Intercept that his client was “not an intelligence operative.”
“He has never been ‘tasked’ to deliver information about the inner workings of the Trump administration,” Coffield wrote in an email to the website.
He has, however, “on numerous occasions, discussed various business ideas for UAE projects in the US,” the lawyer was quoted as saying.
The Intercept report came after the Justice Department last week said George Nader, a well-connected Middle East fixer for the Trump campaign, was arrested for possessing child pornography.
Nader was a witness in special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Russian election meddling.
U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis waits  to welcome Chinese Minister of National Defense Gen. Wei Fenghe to the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia, U.S., November 9, 2018. REUTERS/Yuri Gripas
At a gala charity dinner in New York Thursday evening, Mattis told diners he had now “achieved greatness.”
“I’m not just an overrated general. I am the greatest, the world’s most overrated,” he said.
“I’m honoured to be considered that by Donald Trump because he also called Meryl Streep an overrated actress,” he said.
“So I guess I’m the Meryl Streep of generals, and frankly that sounds pretty good to me,” he said to laughter and applause at the annual Alfred E Smith Memorial Foundation dinner.
“And you do have to admit that between me and Meryl, at least we’ve had some victories.”
Trump called Mattis “the world’s most overrated general” during an acrimonious White House meeting Wednesday with top Democrats over Syria policy.
The retired Marine general said he wasn’t bothered by Trump’s comments.
“Of course not, I earned my spurs on the battlefield… and Donald Trump earned his spurs in a letter from a doctor,” Mattis said, in a jab at the medical condition which allowed Trump to avoid the Vietnam draft.
“And I think the only person in the military that Mr Trump doesn’t think is overrated is Colonel Sanders.”
The softly spoken but battle-hardened former Marine left the administration last year, saying in his resignation letter that Trump’s worldview was irreconcilable with his own.
“I commanded forces in Iraq and Syria and Afghanistan. I tried to bring some peace and order to places with no organized government, chaotic and warring factions, irrational fears and toxic hatred,” Mattis told diners.
“It was hard work but it wasn’t until I started working in Washington DC that I realized how easy I had it overseas in a combat zone.”
Referring to Trump’s “Mad Dog” nickname for him, the general said he had “turned over a kinder, gentler leaf.”
“I like to think of myself as less of a mad dog and more of an emotional support animal, and that’s really great because the airlines let me fly for free.”
A year on from leaving the administration, Mattis joked: “The recovery process is going well, the counsellor says I’ll graduate soon.”
“A year, according to White House time, is about 9,000 hours of executive time or 1,800 holes of golf,” he said in another jab at the president.
"WOW, the Farmers really hit pay dirt," Trump tweeted.
Friday's initial agreement, which marks a halt in the 18-month trade war, calls for a huge increase in China's purchases of US farm products.
It also covers intellectual property, financial services, and currencies.
Trump said Friday evening the deal calls for China to increase its imports of US farms goods to $40-50 billion a year -- more than double the level of 2017.
The US will also hold off on a massive tariff increase planned for next week.
US President Donald Trump speaks to the press after announcing and initial deal with China at the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, DC before departing to Lake Charles, Louisiana to hold a campaign rally on October 11, 2019. - President Donald Trump on Friday hailed a breakthrough in his drawn-out trade war with China, saying the two sides reached an initial deal covering intellectual property, financial services and currencies. (Photo by Nicholas Kamm / AFP)
But the accord will take weeks to finalize, and the details are not clear.
Nor will it roll back tariffs already in place on hundreds of billions of dollars in two-way trade.
The two sides have touted progress in their trade talks before, only to see things come apart later.
Still, Trump cried victory in a series of tweets on Saturday.
"The deal I just made with China is, by far, the greatest and biggest deal ever made for our Great Patriot Farmers in the history of our Country," Trump tweeted.
He said the accord calls for such a big increase in Chinese purchases of US farm goods like soy that there is debate over whether US growers can produce enough.
"Our farmers will figure it out. Thank you China," Trump wrote.
He also said that, among other aspects, the accord calls for "16-20 Billion in Boeing Planes."
It was not clear if Trump meant new orders or previously existing ones. Boeing declined to comment when reached by AFP.






The 2020 reelection kickoff rally is being held in Orlando, Florida and campaign operations chief Michael Glassner says the “historic” event “has already generated tens of thousands of ticketing requests.”
There’s little mystery about how the night will go down.Expect Trump, the self-promoting hero of his ghost-written book “The Art of the Deal,” to claim the US economy is richer, the military stronger, and the country more respected than ever in history.
Expect ultra-loyal, core Republican supporters in red “Make America Great Again” baseball caps to chant “USA!”When the president points to journalists covering the event, expect the crowd to boo.
In 2016, Trump was a novelty, a candidate so different and to many outrageous that few seriously thought he could beat his seemingly bulletproof Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton.
But this time around, everyone knows what to expect.
“The way he looks at it, it worked beautifully in 2016 when everyone else was wrong, so he’ll follow the same instincts and (believe he’ll) win again in 2020,” veteran University of Virginia political analyst Larry Sabato said.”It may not be the right strategy, but it is Trump, and he’s incapable of reorienting himself.”
 The sale never stops 
While Tuesday is framed as a launch, the former reality TV actor and property dealer has never actually stopped campaigning since his 2016 bid opened with a choreographed ride down the Trump Tower golden escalator in New York.
Seeing himself as an outsider who prefers connecting directly with voters, rather than Congress or — even worse — the “enemy” media, Trump holds far more rallies than recent presidents.As if following the script in a long-running play, each event barely differs.
First, Trump warms up the crowd with classic rock, then he comes out to tout his achievements in office, and to brag about his 2016 win, often harking wistfully back to the “day I came down with your First Lady on the escalator.”
The escalator has become such a mythical element in Trump’s narrative that son-in-law Jared Kushner  part of the extended Trump family presence in the White House — even considered recreating the scene for the 2020 bid, The New York Times reported.
Insomniac vs ‘Sleepy Joe’  
Instead, Trump will rock the 20,000-seat Amway Center in Orlando, deep in a state whose 29 electoral college votes could help decide whether he gets to keep his job.
It’s the kind of scene that the president relishes and a perfect stage for his showmanship skills.Just as he used to revel in over-the-top swaggering — often exaggerated — about his real estate triumphs, Trump hardly holds back on the campaign trail.He does, in fact, have positives to trumpet.
The economy, traditionally the number one selling point for voters, is booming, with rock bottom unemployment and strong growth.
But to the despair of many Republican leaders, the 45th US president can’t help dropping from the news agenda’s sunny uplands into dark, seething valleys of grudges and conflicts  whether with personal Washington enemies or entire foreign countries.
The trade war with China that Trump once claimed would be “easy” is threatening to settle into a perilous new normal of permanent tariffs and tension.
The Mexican border wall, which he told his supporters would be paid for by Mexico, remains largely unbuilt, underfunded, and the source of often ugly debate across the country.
And while the two-year investigation into Trump’s Russia links may be over, the president appears incapable of letting go, most recently getting in hot water for saying he might not tell the FBI if a foreign government came to him with dirt on political opponents.
The constant controversy and scandal have left US voters angrier and more polarized than they have been for decades.That makes the election unpredictable.
Democrats are not even close to picking their presidential candidate from a long list of more than 20. And whichever figure gets the nomination, he or she faces a savaging from Trump.
Frontrunner Joe Biden, who was vice president under Barack Obama, has already been indelibly branded “Sleepy Joe.”Still, polls show Biden ahead of Trump and several Democrats believe they can make him a one-term president.
Trump may even end up regretting his “Sleepy Joe” jibe if Biden does get the nomination, says New York Times columnist Gail Collins.
“Americans may start asking themselves whether they’d rather have a president who sleeps through the night or one who’s up at 5 a.m. sending out tweets with a lot of misspelled words,” Collins wrote.






“We have neither planned for this meeting nor do I think such a thing would happen in New York,” the foreign ministry’s Abbas Mousavi said in remarks aired on state television.
The White House said on Sunday that Trump may still meet Rouhani at the UN meeting in New York next week, despite accusations from Washington that Tehran was behind weekend drone attacks on Saudi Arabian oil facilities.
“As we have stated before if the Americans return to the JCPOA and cease their economic terrorism, they can return to the joint commission and talk,” Mousavi added.
He was referring to a commission within the framework of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, a 2015 agreement that gave Iran the promise of relief from sanctions in return for curbs on its nuclear programme.
Tensions between the two countries have soared since Trump unilaterally withdrew the US from the JCPOA in May last year and began reimposing crippling sanctions on the Islamic republic.
European powers have been trying to salvage the nuclear accord and de-escalate the situation.
French President Emmanuel Macron has been leading the efforts, and proposed a meeting between Rouhani and Trump to defuse the crisis.
Trump actually credited Smollett with coining the term, “This is MAGA Country” and in the process referred to him as a “third rate actor.” Then, without specifically calling out the Chicago State’s Attorneys Office for dropping all criminal charges against Smollett, he said the case was a “disgrace to our nation.”
It would be recalled we reported earlier that Smollett had alleged his 2 attackers screamed, “This is MAGA Country!” as they left him on a sub-zero Chicago street with a noose around his neck and bleach on his shirt. Police and the Grand Jury later called the entire attack a fake and big lie.
Following the controversy that trailed the case, Smollett has since been dropped from hit TV series, “Empire” where he plays one of the lead characters. It is speculated that he orchestrated the plan because he was frustrated with his pay on “Empire”.
US President Donald Trump speaks about the impeachment inquiry during a tour of the Flextronics computer manufacturing facility where Apple’s Mac Pros are assembled in Austin, Texas, on November 20, 2019. (Photo by MANDEL NGAN / AFP)
Buttigieg, the contest’s youngest candidate who occupies the same moderate lane as frontrunner Joe Biden, offered a unifying message as a way to bring Democrats and Republicans toward a broad political middle.
Democrats can seize a majority on issues like immigration and guns “if we can galvanize, not polarize that majority,” Buttigieg told the debate in Georgia.
But after an opening phase dominated by talk of impeachment of Trump, participants in the fifth Democratic debate locked horns over the costly universal health care program supported by liberal senators Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders.
“I believe that commanding people to accept that option, whether we wait three years as Senator Warren has proposed or whether you do it right out of the gate is not the right approach to unify the American people around a very, very big transformation that we now have an opportunity to deliver,” Buttigieg said.
Former vice president Biden also took aim at the trillion-dollar reform, saying it would be wiser to build on existing Obamacare and provide a public option.
“The fact is that right now the vast majority of Democrats do not support Medicare for All,” Biden said.
Biden is the face of the Democratic Party establishment and is the current frontrunner. He turned 77 on Wednesday and appeared to stumble over his words on several occasions, including during his opening remarks.
Buttigieg, the military veteran mayor of South Bend, Indiana, who at 37 is less than half Biden’s age, sought to paint himself as a young outsider who should be elected commander-in-chief despite his slender resume.
“I get it’s not traditional establishment Washington experience, but I would argue we need something very different right now,” Buttigieg, mayor of a small city in Indiana, told his rivals.
But when pressed by Senator Kamala Harris, the only black woman in the race, about his low polling among African-American voters, Buttigieg acknowledged he had yet to convince one of the party’s most important constituencies.
“I welcome the challenge of connecting with black voters in America who don’t yet know me,” said Buttigieg, the first major openly-gay US presidential candidate.
“While I do not have the experience of ever having been discriminated against because of the colour of my skin, I do have the experience of sometimes feeling like a stranger in my own country.” 
Biden leads in national polling, followed by Warren and Sanders.
But Buttigieg has cracked into the top tier in the past month, and now tops the polls in Iowa which stages the first nomination contest in February.
Warren was the candidate to watch last month but her campaign has plateaued. 
She has made headway by pledging to end a system that she described during the debate as working “better for… the rich and well-connected, and worse and worse for everyone else.
“I’m tired of freeloading billionaires,” she said.
As the 10 qualifying candidates rumbled in their nationally televised showdown, dominating the political discourse is the high-stakes impeachment hearings into Trump’s dealings with Ukraine.
Democrats accuse Trump of conditioning military aid and a White House meeting on Kiev’s announcing investigations of Biden and his son Hunter, who worked with a Ukrainian energy company while his father was vice president.
But some candidates warned that obsessing over the president could sabotage Democrats’ efforts.
“We cannot simply be consumed by Donald Trump,” Sanders said. “Because if we are, you know what? We’re going to lose the election.”
 Trump ‘punked’ 
With attention directed at Capitol Hill, the debate run-up has been low-key.
But candidates lept at the chance to critique Trump’s foreign policy on North Korea and Saudi Arabia.
Harris landed a sharp blow, saying Trump “got punked” by North Korea’s leader Kim Jong Un.
One of the most heated exchanges came when Buttigieg ridiculed long-shot candidate Tulsi Gabbard for meeting “a murderous dictator” like Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad as the mild-mannered mayor snapped back at criticism over recent comments on Mexico.
There were lighter moments too. Senator Cory Booker, known for his moral calls to action, used humour to upbraid Biden for recently saying he opposed legalizing marijuana nationally.
“I thought you might have been high when you said it,” said Booker, who went on to declare that America’s war on drugs has been “a war on black and brown people.”
Senator Amy Klobuchar, entrepreneur Andrew Yang and investor-turned-activist Tom Steyer rounded out the contenders.
The field may soon expand to include billionaire businessman and former New York mayor Michael Bloomberg who has recently filed ballot paperwork in two states.
The allegations, rejected by Trump as “presidential harassment,” have set lawmakers on a collision course with the office of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI), which is refusing to share the details — raising suspicions the top spy official might be improperly protecting the president.
According to a report by The Washington Post, which cited two unnamed former US officials, a complaint filed by a US intelligence official stemmed from Trump’s communications with a foreign leader and a “promise” allegedly made by the president.
The foreign leader involved was not identified by the Post.
The newspaper did say the complaint “centers” on Ukraine, and cited two people familiar with the matter.
The New York Times also reported Thursday that “at least part of” the whistleblower’s complaint “deals with” Ukraine. The newspaper cited two people familiar with the situation.
Trump spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky — who was elected in May — about two weeks before the complaint was filed, according to both newspapers.
The whistleblower had filed a complaint with the inspector general of the intelligence community (IC IG), Michael Atkinson, who acknowledged he considered it a credible matter of “urgent concern” that necessitated notifying congressional oversight committees.
But during a three-hour closed-door briefing, Atkinson told the House Intelligence Committee that the acting DNI, Joseph Maguire, has barred him from providing details of the complaint to Congress.
“That whole purpose is being frustrated here because the Director of National Intelligence has made the unprecedented decision not to share the complaint with Congress,” the committee’s chairman, Democrat Adam Schiff, told reporters after the briefing.
Schiff said, without revealing the source of his information, that the Department of Justice has been involved in the decision to withhold the whistleblower’s complaint.
“We do not know, because we cannot get an answer to the question, about whether the White House is also involved in preventing this information from coming to Congress,” he said.
Schiff made public Thursday a letter from Atkinson in which the intelligence inspector general said that he and the acting DNI “are at an impasse over this issue.”
– ‘Crisis of confidence’ –
Schiff told the DNI in a letter Wednesday that his decision to ignore the August 12 complaint has precipitated a broader “crisis of confidence and trust” that threatens the integrity of the intelligence community’s whistleblower process, “with potentially far-reaching consequences.”
Trump dismissed the concerns in a Twitter thread, calling the story “fake news,” and noting that any time he speaks with foreign leaders by phone he is well aware that there are likely “many people” listening from US agencies.
“Knowing all of this, is anybody dumb enough to believe that I would say something inappropriate with a foreign leader while on such a potentially ‘heavily populated’ call,” he said.
“I would only do what is right anyway, and only do good for the USA!”
House Democrat Jackie Speier emerged from the Atkinson briefing expressing concern about what she called “the violation of the law” regarding failure to send the whistleblower complaint to Congress.
“It’s deeply troubling,” she told reporters.
Maguire, meanwhile, has agreed to testify in an open session before the committee next Thursday.
Trump has had an uneasy relationship with the US intelligence community since taking office and has frequently criticized their work.
In early September the Democratic heads of three House committees announced an investigation into alleged efforts by Trump and his lawyer Rudy Giuliani to pressure the Ukrainian government for their own political ends, including by withholding US security assistance.
They allege that Trump and Giuliani have pressured Kiev to prosecute Ukrainians who provided evidence against Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort.
They also alleged that Kiev was pressured to provide damaging information on the son of Joe Biden. The senior Biden is the leading Democratic hopeful to challenge Trump in next year’s presidential election.
In a combative CNN interview Thursday, Giuliani admitted Ukraine had been asked to investigate Biden’s son shortly after denying such an action. Giuliani, explaining the contradiction, said he had asked Ukraine “to look into the allegations that related to my client, which tangentially involved Joe Biden in a massive bribery scheme.”
And the president’s lawyer also tweeted: “A President telling a Pres-elect of a well known corrupt country he better investigate corruption that affects US is doing his job.”
Hunter Biden worked for a Ukrainian gas company beginning in 2014, while his father was vice president.
Outgoing Prime Minister Theresa May had offered her full support to Kim Darroch after he was revealed to have described the Trump administration as “inept”.
But the man tipped to replace her in Downing Street in the coming weeks, former foreign secretary Boris Johnson, declined to explicitly back the diplomat, emphasising instead the need to maintain strong ties with the US.
In a series of confidential cables revealed by a British newspaper at the weekend, Darroch described the Trump administration as “uniquely dysfunctional”.
Trump hit back with a torrent of angry tweets, saying he would not deal with Darroch again, and describing him as a “very stupid guy” and a “pompous fool”.
He also criticised May’s “foolish” policies and said it was a good thing she would soon be replaced.
Darroch has been in Washington since January 2016 and was due to stay on until the end of the year.
But in a statement, he said: “The current situation is making it impossible for me to carry out my role as I would like.”
 Doing his job 
Darroch has received support from across the political spectrum in Britain and after he resigned, Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said: “It should never have come to this.”
Hunt, who is vying with Johnson to replace May as leader of the ruling Conservative party and thus prime minister, on Tuesday, condemned Trump’s outbursts as “disrespectful and wrong”.
But Johnson declined several opportunities in a TV debate on Tuesday night to back Britain’s ambassador.
Of Trump’s tweets, he said: “I don’t think it was necessarily the right thing for him to do… but our relationship with the US is of fantastic importance.”
Reports suggest that it was at that point that Darroch decided that he must resign.
Yet Johnson himself has a history with the man who is US president, saying while he was still mayor of London in 2015 that Trump was “out of his mind” for suggesting parts of the UK capital were “so radicalised” that even the police stayed away.
“I think he is betraying a quite stupefying ignorance that makes him frankly unfit to hold the office of president of the United States,” Johnson said of Trump the time.
May expressed “great regret” that Darroch was leaving, saying: “Good government depends on public servants being able to give full and frank advice.”
She emphasised “the importance of defending our values and principles particularly when they are under pressure”.
Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, the leader of the separatist Scottish National Party, said Darroch had been “forced out” for doing his job.
“Boris Johnson’s failure last night to stand up for him — and stand up to the behaviour of Donald Trump — spoke volumes,” she said.
Tom Tugendhat, the Conservative chairman of parliament’s foreign affairs committee, warned the incident could have far-reaching implications.
“If the UK can’t protect diplomatic communications and that costs people their careers when all they’ve done is to execute the wishes of the government, we will degrade the quality of our envoys, diminish our influence and weaken our country,” he said.
 Enter Farage? 
The Foreign Office has launched an investigation into the leak of Darroch’s cables, which comes at a hugely sensitive time in US-UK relations.
Trump was given the red-carpet treatment during a state visit to Britain last month, but there are tensions over his policies towards Iran and China.
As Brexit looms, Britain is also hoping for a free trade deal with the US to mitigate the impact of leaving the European Union.
There has been speculation that the leak was aimed at forcing out Darroch and replacing him with a more Brexit-friendly candidate.
Trump has previously suggested the job go to Nigel Farage, a British eurosceptic politician who now leads the Brexit Party and who, like Johnson, was a prominent voice in the 2016 referendum campaign for Brexit.
On Twitter, Farage said Darroch had made “the right decision”, adding: “Time to put in a non-Remainer who wants a trade deal with America.”
Johnson has previously said he would not work with Farage.
Mueller, whose probe implicated President Donald Trump in acts of obstruction of justice, will make the statement at the Justice Department at 11 am (1500 GMT) but take no questions, the department said.
Democrats in Congress have been pressing Mueller for weeks to testify on the findings of his report, completed in late March following a high-stakes investigation that loomed large throughout the first two years of Trump’s presidency.
The report described extensive contacts and possible attempted collusion, but no criminal conspiracy between Trump’s 2016 election campaign and Russia.
It also mapped out 10 instances of possible obstruction of justice by Trump but refused to rule whether it was enough for criminal prosecution.
Democrats considering impeaching the president have demanded Mueller, a former FBI director, testify on his findings in Congress.
He has reportedly offered to speak in private, but the Democrat-led House Judiciary Committee wants him to testify publicly and has suggested Mueller could be subpoenaed to speak.
Trump and the Justice Department head, Attorney General Bill Barr, say Mueller’s report clears Trump of wrongdoing and appear opposed to Mueller being questioned on the report on Capitol Hill.
“The Dems want a second shot at Bob Mueller, are very unhappy with the No Collusion Report,” Trump tweeted last week.
“They should not be allowed to play this game any longer – no second chances – must get back to work. So bad for our Country!”
Ever since Mueller was named as an independent prosecutor to lead the Russia investigation in May 2017, Trump has branded it a “witch hunt” and a “hoax”.
 Trump claimed ‘complete exoneration’ 
Mueller though produced criminal charges against 37 individuals and companies, including six former Trump associates, including campaign chairman Paul Manafort, personal lawyer Michael Cohen, and national security advisor Michael Flynn.
Mueller’s final report was clouded by huge controversy over its findings on Trump.
Barr released his own summary weeks before the full report was out, declaring it showed no evidence of collusion with Russia and showed “no actions that, in our judgment, constitute obstructive conduct.”
Trump seized on that to declare that it was a “complete exoneration.”
In a letter to Barr released later, however, Mueller took issue with his conclusions, saying that they did not correctly capture the substance of the report and his conclusions.
Democrats have since demanded to see the entire report without redactions as well as the underlying evidence, and have subpoenaed Trump’s former White House lawyer Don McGahn, Mueller’s primary source on many of the obstruction allegations, to testify.
The White House has refused to permit McGahn to testify, setting up a court battle and fuelling calls by Democrat legislators to launch impeachment proceedings against Trump.
Mueller’s testimony would be important in any such proceedings.
Trump called the duties “unacceptable” in a stern message that signals trade ties between the two countries are fast deteriorating.
India slapped higher duties on 28 U.S. products after the United States withdrew tariff-free entry for certain Indian goods.
Washington is also upset with New Delhi’s plans to restrict cross-border data flows and impose stricter rules on e-commerce that hurt U.S. firms operating in India.
“I look forward to speaking with Prime Minister Modi about the fact that India, for years having put very high tariffs against the United States, just recently increased the tariffs even further,” Trump said on Twitter.
“This is unacceptable and the tariffs must be withdrawn!” said Trump, who will meet Modi at this week’s G20 summit in Japan.
Government sources rejected Trump’s argument, saying Indian tariffs were not that high compared to other developing countries and U.S. tariffs on some items were much higher.
India’s trade ministry did not immediately respond to a Reuters email seeking comment.
Trump’s tweet came hours after U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo left New Delhi after meeting Modi.
Pompeo had said the nations were “friends who can help each other all around the world” and the current differences were expressed “in the spirit of friendship”.
In one tweet, though, Trump may have badly undermined Pompeo’s efforts to reduce friction between the two countries.
Trump in May scrapped trade privileges for India under the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), under which New Delhi was the biggest beneficiary that allowed duty-free exports of up to $5.6 billion.
India initially issued an order in June 2018 to raise import taxes as high as 120% on a slew of U.S. items, incensed by Washington’s refusal to exempt it from higher steel and aluminium tariffs.
But New Delhi repeatedly delayed raising tariffs as the two nations engaged in trade talks, Trade between them was worth $142.1 billion in 2018, with India having a surplus of $24.2 billion.
The relationship took a big hit with India’s sudden introduction of new e-commerce rules for foreign investors in February.
That angered the United States which saw a protectionist New Delhi effort to help small traders at the expense of U.S. firms such as Walmart and Amazon.com Inc.
Companies such as Mastercard and Visa have also been battling Indian central bank rules that mandate them to store their data only in India. 
And in a big setback for Trump, a federal judge denied the president’s attempt to quash another subpoena from Democratic lawmakers ordering an accounting firm to release years of Trump financial documents dating from before he took office.
That decision marks the first time US courts have waded into the conflict that pits the president against Democrats who have opened a raft of probes into his administration since they took control of the House of Representatives in January.
In a sign of the uphill battle their investigations face, an attorney for Trump’s former lawyer Don McGahn said his client would follow the White House’s instructions and not testify about Trump’s alleged obstruction of justice at a House Judiciary Committee hearing set for Tuesday.
“Under these circumstances, and also conscious of the duties he, as an attorney, owes to his former client, Mr. McGahn must decline to appear at the hearing tomorrow,” his attorney William A. Burck wrote to the committee, adding that his client “understands from your prior correspondence that the Committee would vote to hold him in contempt should he not appear.”
Earlier in the day, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler called the White House’s move “the latest act of obstruction,” and said “the Committee will convene as planned tomorrow morning, and Mr. McGahn is expected to appear as legally required.”
“The first thing we’re going to have to do is hold McGahn in contempt,” Nalder told CNN in an interview late Monday. 
He added: “You’re dealing with a lawless president willing to go to any lengths to prevent testimony that might implicate him — that does implicate him.”
Democrats want McGahn to talk about special counsel Robert Mueller’s sprawling, 22-month probe into whether Trump colluded with Russians while running for president and then tried to impede the probe into that question after he was elected.
In his final report, released in mid-April, Mueller said he hadn’t gathered evidence of collusion that would warrant charges of criminal conspiracy.
But it detailed a series of moves by the presidency against Mueller’s investigation, including an attempt to sack Mueller that was blocked by McGahn.
Trump has hit back against these investigations, saying he’s a victim of “harassment.”
“The Democrats do not like the conclusion of the Mueller investigation… and want a wasteful and unnecessary do-over,” his spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said on Monday.
 Financial investigation 
The White House has also refused to cooperate with a Democrat-led investigation of Trump’s finances prior to his election.
Last month, lawmakers issued a subpoena for records dating back to 2011 after Trump’s one-time lawyer Michael Cohen testified that his boss would often change the estimated value of his assets and liabilities on financial statements as he felt was needed for various purposes.
Trump and affiliated organizations and entities then filed a suit requesting that the court declare the subpoena “invalid and unenforceable” as it questioned the legislative validity of the Democrats’ demands.
US District Judge Amit Mehta in Washington on Monday refused to block the subpoena saying, “it is not for the court to question whether the committee’s actions are truly motivated by political considerations.”
In another twist to this saga, the House Intelligence Committee on Monday made public the transcripts of testimony by Cohen, who is currently serving a prison sentence in part for lying to Congress, made to lawmakers behind closed doors.
According to the transcripts from hearings held earlier in the year, Cohen said he’d followed directions from Trump’s personal lawyer to lie about when a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow was called off.
“Make no mistake, any attempt by the president, his associates or administration to suborn perjury, obstruct our investigation or mislead the public will not be tolerated – and will be exposed,” intelligence committee chairman Adam Schiff said in a statement. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in announcing the probe on Tuesday afternoon that Trump had betrayed his oath of office by seeking help from Ukraine to hurt his Democratic rival Joe Biden.
In the latest of a blast of tweets in response to that bombshell announcement, Trump said: “There has been no President in the history of our Country who has been treated so badly as I have.”
“The Democrats are frozen with hatred and fear. They get nothing done. This should never be allowed to happen to another President. Witch Hunt!,” Trump tweeted.
The dramatic move marked the first step in a complex process that stands little chance of driving Trump from office. And it pushed US politics into a perilous new chapter 14 months before new elections for control of the White House and Congress.
Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives, and other Democratic Party leaders had resisted taking the step for months, preferring to focus on the coming election fight.
But a combination of the most recent allegations that Trump offered Ukraine aid in return for help to damage Democratic White House frontrunner Biden, and a groundswell of support for impeachment among the party’s rank and file, appeared to tip the balance.
But, she added, "Denmark and the US are not in crisis, the US is one of our closest allies."
The Scandinavian country's invitation to visit "remains open," she said.
Trump had tweeted on Tuesday that "based on Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen's comments, that she would have no interest in discussing the purchase of Greenland, I will be postponing our meeting scheduled in two weeks for another time."
The Wall Street Journal first reported that Trump had expressed interest in the self-governing part of Denmark -- which is mostly covered in ice.
The president, a former real estate magnate, has been curious about the area's natural resources and geopolitical relevance, the paper said.
The proposal had sparked both indignation and amusement in Denmark.
Greenland's foreign affairs ministry said the island was ready to talk business but was not for sale, while Frederiksen has described the idea as "absurd".
Trump had been scheduled to visit Denmark on September 2 and 3.
The footage, shot by the British host's camera pool on Tuesday evening and spotted and subtitled by Canada's CBC, set the tone for the allies' summit in Watford, just outside London.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson can be heard asking France's President Emmanuel Macron: "Is that why you were late?"
Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau interjects: "He was late because he takes a 40-minute press conference off the top."
Earlier Tuesday, Macron's one-on-one pre-summit meeting with Trump had been proceeded by a lengthy question and answer session with the media, as the leaders publicly disagreed about NATO strategy and trade.
In the video, Macron appears to tell an anecdote about the encounter as Britain's Princess Anne and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte look on, but the French leader's back is to camera and he is inaudible amid the hubbub.
"Oh, yeah, yeah, he announced..." an amused Trudeau declares, adding: "You just watched his team's jaw drop to the floor."
As he did at last year's NATO meeting, Trump has thrown out normal summit protocol and used his appearances with allied leaders to field dozens of questions from the world's media.
He has condemned as "nasty" Macron's criticism of brain dead NATO, branded European countries that have failed to meet military spending targets "delinquent" and railed against moves in Washington to impeach him.
Trump is due to give another news conference, this time on his own, later Wednesday after the 29 NATO leaders hold a full three-hour closed-door summit session and issue a statement to celebrate their unity.
Hunt, who is vying with his predecessor Boris Johnson to replace May in Downing Street later this month, added that he would keep US ambassador Kim Darroch in place if he took office.
“@realDonaldTrump friends speak frankly so I will: these comments are disrespectful and wrong to our prime minister and my country,” he tweeted.
“Your diplomats give their private opinions to @SecPompeo and so do ours! You said the UK/US alliance was the greatest in history and I agree.
“But allies need to treat each other with respect as @theresa_may has always done with you.
“Ambassadors are appointed by the UK government and if I become PM our ambassador stays.”
He was responding to a broadside by Trump against both May’s government and Darroch, triggered by the leak of unflattering diplomatic cables written by the British envoy.

Trump said Darroch was a “very stupid guy” and slammed outgoing May’s “foolish” Brexit policies on Tuesday in a second straight day of virulent attacks.
The missives threaten to plunge Washington and London into an unprecedented diplomatic crisis.
Hunt is trailing Johnson in the contest to replace May as leader of their Conservative party and prime minister of Britain.
She is stepping down after failing to deliver Britain’s exit from the European Union, three years after the 2016 referendum vote for Brexit.
Earlier, Johnson said he had a good relationship with the Trump White House and noted that he himself had criticised May’s Brexit strategy.
“I have got a good relationship with the White House and I have no embarrassment in saying that,” he told reporters.
“I think it’s very important that we have a strong relationship with our most important ally.
“The United States is, has been, will be and for the foreseeable future our number one political-military friend.”
US President Donald Trump said in a radio interview posted online Tuesday that he planned to designate Mexican drug cartels as terror groups.
The move comes after Trump called for a “war” on the drug cartels in early November when nine women and children from an American Mormon community in northern Mexico were killed in a hail of gunfire.
“Are you going to designate those cartels in Mexico as terror groups and start hitting them with drones?” asked Bill O’Reilly, a conservative media personality in an online interview on “The O’Reilly Update.”
“I don’t want to say what I’m going to do, but they will be designated,” Trump answered.
He added: “I will be designating the cartels… absolutely. I have been working on that for the last 90 days.
“Designation is not that easy, you have to go through a process and we are well into that process.”
Mexican authorities reacted swiftly, with the foreign ministry saying that it has contacted US officials “to understand the content and the reach” of what the US president had said.
Mexico would also seek a high-level meeting with US officials to hear US concerns and present Mexico’s views — which include stemming the flow of weapons bought in the United States and smuggled south of the border, the statement read.






Trump invited conservative activists who have been curbed or banned on social media to press his argument that big social networks are discriminating against conservatives, notwithstanding his large online following.
“A big subject today at the White House Social Media Summit will be the tremendous dishonesty, bias, discrimination and suppression practiced by certain companies. We will not let them get away with it much longer,” Trump tweeted.
The comments stoked fears that the White House may seek to eliminate the legal framework that protects online services from liability over harmful content posted by others but hosted on their platforms.
Digital rights activists and others warned that removing the protection — codified as Section 230 of a 1996 law — could undermine free speech protections and harm the internet ecosystem.
“The government shouldn’t require — or coerce — intermediaries to remove constitutionally protected speech that the government cannot prohibit directly,” said a letter signed by 27 civic and digital rights organizations and 50 legal scholars.
The letter said such demands would violate the US constitution’s First Amendment on free expression. 
“Also, imposing broad liability for user speech incentivizes services to err on the side of taking down speech, resulting in overbroad censorship — or even avoid offering speech forums altogether,” it added.
Eric Goldman, head of the High Tech Law Institute at Santa Clara University, said, Section 230 had made the modern internet, and user-generated content, possible. 
“Today’s most popular social websites would never have taken off and the internet would look basically like cable,” he added.
Trump has repeatedly claimed that firms such as Facebook, Google and Twitter — who were not invited to the summit — discriminate against him and his supporters, even though his own Twitter account has nearly 62 million followers.
 Intimidation effort? 
Big internet firms have roundly denied accusations of political bias. 
But they also have faced pressure from governments around the world to remove abusive and hateful content as well as conspiracy theories, such as those promoted by Trump and his allies attending Thursday’s White House gathering.
“Internet companies are not biased against any political ideology, and conservative voices in particular have used social media to great effect,” said Michael Beckerman, president of the Internet Association, which includes Twitter, Facebook and Google
“Internet companies depend upon their users’ trust from across the political spectrum to grow and succeed.”
Twitter said last month it would add warnings to tweets from officials and politicians that violate its rules — a move potentially impacting Trump’s prodigious output.
The Computer & Communications Industry Association, a trade group whose members include Facebook and Google, said the White House event “seems designed to intimidate companies to bias content in favor of whoever is calling the meeting.”
“No private company should be browbeaten by the government into giving a pass to objectionable content that violates company policies,” CCIA president Ed Black said in a statement. 
“Social media sites may wish to allow many types of speech, but should not be required to stay neutral on hate or religious intolerance. 
“If those airing grievances at this week’s meeting are unsatisfied with one company’s policy against objectionable content, there are plenty of competitors from which to choose.”
Without the tech platforms, Thursday’s event is “less of a summit and more of a complaining festival,” Adam Chiara, a University of Hartford professor of communication told AFP this week.
“A summit usually involves parties talking about how to reach a goal or discussing ways to meet objectives. That will be hard for President Trump to do without having the mega social media platforms there.”
Trump confirmed that the conversation, held in July, had addressed alleged corruption involving Biden and his son Hunter, and he floated the possibility that a transcript could be released.
“We had a very great conversation, very straight, very honest conversation. I hope they can put it out,” Trump said, repeating that he had done nothing wrong.
“The conversation I had was largely congratulatory, was largely corruption… and largely the fact that we don’t want our people, like vice president Biden and his son, creating… the corruption already in the Ukraine.”
The Wall Street Journal reported that Trump pressed Zelensky about eight times on the call to investigate possible corruption involving Hunter, who worked with a Ukrainian natural gas company while his father was vice president.

Read More: Trump slams ‘partisan’ whistleblower, Biden pushes back

Biden told reporters on Saturday that Trump’s actions appeared “to be an overwhelming abuse of power.”
“I know what I’m up against, a serial abuser. That’s what this guy is,” Biden said.
– Impeachment calls return –
The Democratic Party has been split on whether to push for impeachment proceedings against Trump since he came to power in 2017.
But influential congressman Adam Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, on Sunday said that his own reservations about impeachment were fading over Trump’s Ukraine call.
“We’re talking about serious or flagrant abuse and potential violation of law,” Schiff told CNN, calling for full disclosure of any “illicit conduct of the president of the United States and the added element of a cover-up.”
“I have been very reluctant to go down the path of impeachment (but) the president is pushing us down this road.
“This seems different in kind, and we may very well have crossed the Rubicon here.”
Democratic presidential candidates Elizabeth Warren and Beto O’Rouke have called for Trump’s impeachment.
The Ukraine scandal mushroomed last week when Schiff revealed the acting Director of National Intelligence, Joseph Maguire, had refused to hand over the whistleblower complaint to Congress.
Maguire is scheduled to publicly testify before Schiff’s committee Thursday.
The allegations echo the ongoing row over Russian meddling in the 2016 US election when Trump defeated Hillary Clinton.
Trump’s senior staff swung behind him on Sunday morning with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin telling CNN that “I don’t have any reason to believe that the president pressured” the Ukrainian leader.
“People know there were issues that Biden’s son did business in Ukraine. I, for one, have concerns about that,” he said.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told ABC that “if vice president Biden behaved inappropriately, if he was protecting his son and intervened in a way that was corrupt, I think we need to get to the bottom of it.”
Pompeo said it was up to White House whether to release the transcript.
Trump and Zelensky will meet for the first time Wednesday at the UN General Assembly in New York.






Prime Minister “Theresa May should not be rolling out the red carpet for a state visit,” Corbyn, a veteran left-winger and pacifist, said in a statement.
Trump “rips up vital international treaties, backs climate change denial and uses racist and misogynist rhetoric,” Corbyn said, although he added that he would welcome a meeting with Trump during the June 3-5 visit.
Corbyn said it was “disappointing that the prime minister has again opted to kowtow to this US administration”.
House of Commons speaker John Bercow, who has ruled out allowing Trump to address parliament, and Vince Cable, leader of the opposition Liberal Democrats, have already declined the invitation to the dinner.
State dinners for visiting heads of state are usually held at Buckingham Palace and are lavish affairs.
May invited Trump for a state visit when she visited him in January 2017 — just days after he took office.
The invitation proved controversial and an online petition to cancel it reached 1.9 million signatures.
The president, a strong supporter of Brexit, travelled to Britain last year but only on a working visit without the pomp and ceremony associated with state visits.
“The negotiations have not fulfilled our expectations and finally broke up… without any outcome. (It) is totally due to the fact that the US would not give up their old… attitude,” Kim Myong Gil said.
The talks with Stephen Biegun, US President Donald Trump’s special envoy, were a much-anticipated resumption of dialogue after a Hanoi meeting in late February between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un failed to yield a breakthrough.
“The US raised expectations and offered suggestions like flexible approach, new methods and creative solutions but they have disappointed us greatly, and dampened our enthusiasm for negotiations by bringing nothing to the negotiation table,” Kim Myong Gil said.
“These talks were held at a crucial moment when the situation on the Korean peninsula stands at the crossroads of dialogue or confrontation. Therefore we have come to the negotiating table with a responsibility that we should ensure a result to promote the development of the DPRK (Democratic People’s Republic of Korea),” he added.
The politically charged case over whether or not Trump’s campaign team colluded with Moscow — and whether the president sought to derail that probe — has captivated Washington for the better part of two years.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller, a former director of the FBI, was appointed to investigate the extent of Russian efforts to meddle in the 2016 presidential election and tilt it in Trump’s favour.
He concluded that 22-month investigation in March and Barr’s summary of the report made public indicated he found no collusion. Barr reiterated those findings on Thursday.
“The special counsel’s report states that his investigation did not establish that members of the Trump campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government in its election interference activities,” the attorney general told reporters.
But the initial Mueller report summary left unanswered the question of whether Trump tried to obstruct the probe — which is why Washington has breathlessly awaited its release.
Barr emphatically said Thursday that the Republican leader was not legally at fault for his actions — and Trump rejoiced after the press conference, tweeting “GAME OVER.”
“There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by a sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents, and fueled by illegal leaks,” Barr said ahead of the release of the Mueller report.
“Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsel’s investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely, and asserting no privilege claims,” he said.
“And at the same time, the president took no action that in fact deprived the special counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation,” Barr said.
He revealed that Trump’s lawyers were able to review the report earlier this week, adding that the White House made no changes to the wording.
But Trump’s Democratic opponents on Capitol Hill will be combing through the redacted 400-page report to see if any of the “10 episodes” of potential obstruction amount to grounds for impeachment.
The meeting followed US President Donald Trump’s move last month to blacklist Chinese tech giant Huawei over national security concerns, threatening the firm’s global ambitions and ramping up the months-long trade battle between the two countries.
Earlier this week, the Chinese government summoned executives from American firms Dell and Microsoft and South Korea’s Samsung, among others, to warn them that any moves to ramp down their businesses in China may lead to retaliation, The New York Times reported.
American companies were told “that the Trump administration’s move to cut off Chinese companies from American technology had disrupted the global supply chain, adding that companies that followed the policy could face permanent consequences,” the newspaper reported.
Companies based outside the United States were told that as long as they maintained business as usual, they wouldn’t be punished, the newspaper reported.
Last Friday, Facebook announced it would cut Huwaei off from its popular social networking app to comply with the US sanctions, further isolating the company that has become the world’s second-largest smartphone vendor.
Google made a similar announcement in May.
Washington and Beijing resumed their trade battle last month when negotiations in the US ended without a deal and US President Donald Trump raised tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods.
Beijing retaliated with its own tariff hike on billions of dollars worth of US goods.
The US move to cut Huawei off from American hardware came next, but was delayed by 90 days to prevent economic disruptions.
Michigan Representative Justin Amash — a staunch libertarian on the right of the party — declared that any other person would have been prosecuted over Trump’s multiple attempts to thwart Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report into Russian election interference.
“Never a fan of @justinamash, a total lightweight who opposes me and some of our great Republican ideas and policies just for the sake of getting his name out there,” Trump tweeted.
He said that if the Michigan lawmaker had “actually read the biased Mueller Report… he would see that it was nevertheless strong on NO COLLUSION and, ultimately, NO OBSTRUCTION…”
Trump called Amash “a loser who sadly plays right into our opponents’ hands!”
Amash, who has broken with his party before, had laid out his case in a series of tweets.
He said Mueller had identified “multiple examples of conduct satisfying all the elements of obstruction of justice.”
“Undoubtedly,” Amash added, “any person who is not the president of the United States would be indicted based on such evidence.”
Since Mueller issued his voluminous report, Trump has repeatedly attacked its authors as partisans even while insisting it exonerates him of allegations of collusion with Russia or obstruction of justice.
But Democrats note that the report lists around 140 contacts between Trump’s inner circle and various Russians and that it exhaustively details evidence of at least 10 cases where Trump appeared to be interfering with the probe.
Amash has often been a lone voice in his party, and so his stance carried less impact than if it had come from a party mainstay.
A much higher-profile Republican, Senator Mitt Romney, spoke out on Sunday against impeachment even while praising Amash.
“I respect him,” the Republicans’ 2012 presidential nominee and occasional fierce Trump critic, told “Fox News Sunday” of Amash.
“I think it’s a courageous statement. But I believe to make a case for obstruction of justice, you just don’t have the elements.”
Democrats have been divided on impeachment but support appears to be growing with the Trump administration resisting numerous congressional requests for witnesses or information.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has cautioned against moving too quickly, noting that the Republican-controlled Senate would likely acquit the president should the House of Representatives impeach him.
The US Commerce Department placed Huawei on an “entity list” on grounds of national security on May 16, a move that curbs its access to US-made components it needs for its equipment. A 90-day reprieve was later issued. 
China’s commerce ministry announced on Friday that it will release its own list of “unreliable entities”.
Ministry spokesman Gao Feng said the list will include “foreign enterprises, organisations or individuals that do not comply with market rules, deviate from a contract’s spirit or impose blockades or stop supplies to Chinese enterprises for non-commercial purposes, and seriously damage the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese enterprises.”
The detailed measures against firms on the list will be released shortly, Gao said.
The Chinese move to create its own “entity list” appears aimed at pressuring foreign companies to maintain commercial relations with Huawei — Washington is reportedly also considering adding Chinese surveillance firms to its list for alleged human rights violations.
Google, whose Android operating system is vital to Huawei phones, is among the companies that have announced that they will abide by the US order.
“Some foreign entities have violated normal market rules and the spirit of their contracts” to cut off supplies and “take other discriminatory actions against Chinese companies damaging their legitimate rights and interests, and endangering China’s national security and national interests,” Gao said, according to state-owned Global Times.
Huawei has been thrust to the centre of the trade spat, with Trump suggesting last week that the company could be included in a deal. 
The United States claims the company has deep links to China’s Communist-led government and warns that its equipment could serve as Trojan horse for Chinese intelligence services.
Huawei — the world’s second smartphone maker and a leader in developing next-generation 5G networks — vehemently denies the charges.
 Trump ‘lies’ 
China’s announcement follows a growing war of words, with Chinese officials accusing the United States of “naked economic terrorism” and of lying about the impact of tariffs on its economy.
Washington and Beijing resumed their tariffs battle earlier this month after trade talks in Washington ended without a deal, with the US side accusing Chinese negotiators of reneging on previous commitments.
The countries have exchanged tariffs on $360 billion in two-way trade so far.
Trump said Thursday the US tariffs have had a “devastating effect” on the Chinese economy.
“The US side has said such lies not just once or twice. Every time China exposes them in time, but the US seems to be very persistent, even obsessed and keeps repeating these lies,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said at a regular press briefing.
Trump more than doubled punitive tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods to 25 percent this month and launched the process to hit nearly all remaining imports from the Asian country.
China responded by announcing that it would increase tariffs on $60 billion in American products on June 1.
The US tariffs appear to have already had an impact on Chinese manufacturing activity, which contracted more than expected this month, official data showed on Friday. Experts note that US consumers and importers bear the brunt of tariffs on products coming into the United States.
 Tariffs on condoms 
Now China is hitting back Saturday with tariffs ranging from five percent to 25 percent on 5,410 products.
Those facing the 25 percent hike include beauty products, sports equipment, musical instruments, wine, condoms, diamonds, wood, fabric and toys.
Chinese state media suggested this week that Beijing could also hit back by stopping exports of rare earths to the United States, cutting off key materials used to make everything from smartphones to televisions and military equipment.
Chinese mines accounted for 71 percent of the world’s rare earths production in 2018, according to the US Geological Survey, down from 80 percent in 2017 and 95 percent a decade ago.
Cutting off exports to the US could give Beijing leverage in trade talks as China supplies 80 percent of the rare earths imported by the United States.
But analysts say China may be reluctant to target the materials because it could hasten a global search for alternative supplies of rare earths.
“(We) are heading to working-level negotiations with the US,” Kim Myong Gil told reporters in Beijing, according to the agency.
“As the US side sent a new signal, I bear high expectations and optimism, and I am also optimistic about the results.”
The talks are planned to begin later this week, but the venue has not yet been confirmed by either side.
In a bid to break the deadlock over Pyongyang’s nuclear weapons, US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un had agreed to restart dialogue during an impromptu meeting in June.
The North Korean team’s reported departure came a day after Pyongyang test-fired a submarine-launched ballistic missile, by far the most provocative such launch since it started a dialogue with Washington in 2018.
North Korea frequently combines diplomatic outreach and military muscle-flexing as a way of maintaining pressure on the other side, analysts say and may believe such moves give it added leverage.
Despite the gridlock, however, North Korea has continued to praise Trump, describing him as “bold” and “wise”.
Relations have also thawed after the president fired his hawkish national security adviser John Bolton last month, a move hailed by Pyongyang.
Trump had blamed Bolton for comments on North Korea that “set us back very badly”, and analysts have said that his ouster may have helped bring North Korea back to the table.
A deal with Pyongyang is one of Trump’s top foreign policy initiatives, and he has held two summits with Kim in a bid to denuclearise the Korean peninsula.
And despite the collapse of the second summit in Hanoi earlier this year and the subsequent deadlock, Trump has continued to express optimism about a deal, playing up what he describes as a strong personal relationship with Kim.
Westerhout’s unexpected departure came after Trump learned that she had talked about his family and White House matters with reporters at an off-the-record session during the president’s recent working vacation in New Jersey, The New York Times reported citing unnamed sources.
Later, other outlets — including CNN and Politico — also reported her departure citing unnamed sources.
CNN said Westerhout had failed to make clear during the interaction with journalists that her comments were off the record, and one reporter disclosed the conversation to the White House.
Westerhout’s office was in front of the Oval Office and she had been described as Trump’s “gatekeeper” in US media. She had been his personal assistant from the beginning of his presidency.
The Trump administration has been particularly sensitive about staff leaking information to the media, with the president railing against both officials and journalists over reports about the state of affairs in the White House.
The New York Times said Westerhout was now a “separated employee” and would not be allowed into the White House.
A former administration official described Trump and Westerhout’s relationship as “close”, CNN said, but added that talking about his family was “a red line”.
Westerhout was not a high-profile staffer, but her exit adds to a long list of administration officials who have quit since Donald Trump was elected president in 2016.
Tensions have spiked in the Gulf since May last year when President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew the US from a nuclear deal between Iran and world powers — known formally as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).
The escalation has seen ships attacked, drones downed and tankers seized in the Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint for around a third of the world’s sea-borne oil.
At the height of the crisis, Trump ordered strikes against Iran on June 21 before cancelling them at the last minute.
Macron has been leading efforts to de-escalate the situation, and expressed hopes at a G7 meeting last week of bringing Rouhani and Trump together for a meeting.
But Rouhani has played down the likelihood of that happening unless the United States first lifts crippling sanctions that it has slapped on Iran since pulling out of the deal.
“If Europe cannot operationalise its commitments, Iran will take its third step to reduce its JCPOA commitments,” Rouhani told Macron in a phone call, quoted by the government website.
However, “this step, just like the other ones, will be reversible,” he added.
“Unfortunately after this unilateral move by the US, European countries did not take concrete measures to implement their commitments.
“The contents of JCPOA are unchangeable and all parties must be committed to its contents,” he said.
Rouhani said Iran had two priorities: for all parties to the JCPOA to fully implement their obligations and “securing the safety of all free maritime transportation in all waterways including the Persian Gulf and Strait of Hormuz”.
– Economic delegation –
In a statement from his office, Macron stressed the importance of “the current dynamic to create the conditions for a de-escalation through dialogue and building a durable solution in the region”.
A French diplomatic source said it was important, after recent discussions between Paris and Tehran, to establish that Rouhani was “still ready to negotiate. And that is the case”.
Twelve months after the US pulled out of the nuclear deal, Iran began reducing its commitments under the accord.
The UN nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, said Friday that just over 10 percent of Iran’s uranium stockpile was now enriched up to 4.5 percent, above the 3.67 percent limit stipulated in the 2015 deal.
It also said Iran’s total stockpile of uranium, which under the accord should be no more than the equivalent of 300 kilograms (661 pounds) of uranium hexafluoride, now stood at roughly 360 kilograms.
Iran has not specified what its third step might be in reducing its commitments to the deal.
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said on Tuesday in an interview with the Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper that the step would be taken on September 6.
Rouhani’s chief of staff Mahmoud Vaezi said the third step would be taken “in the event Iran’s demands are not met”.
“A committee decides the third step and we will decide… two or three days prior to the deadline,” he said late Saturday, quoted by state news agency IRNA.
Vaezi said Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi would head an Iranian economic delegation travelling to France on Monday to discuss proposals aimed at salvaging the nuclear deal.
Macron has urged the US to offer some sort of relief to Iran, such as lifting sanctions on oil sales to China and India, or a new credit line to enable exports in return for its compliance with the nuclear deal.
No nation across the world has left its borders open for inflow of goods and services. Even in the so-called free economy, mostly practiced in theories and textbooks, there is always a record of inflow and outflow. This means that the goods and services must follow the proper channel within the bounds of a sovereignty.
Financial experts have also agreed that properly checked borders have not ensured whatever enters the territory are taxed, thereby boosting the income of the country, but mostly essential in ensuring the safety of lives and property. It is worth noting that safety of lives and investments are prerequisites to investment decisions.
In recent years, Nigeria has recorded a cocktail of such crisis, which has been blamed on cross-border activities. But it is also understandable that lapses, which still remain, has been tolerated due to low productive capacity to firmly effect import substitution policy.
An economist and financial market analyst with FSDH Merchant Bank Limited, Ayodele Akinwunmi, agreed that the border has to be regulated so that some sanity can come into the free movement of goods and persons because of the adverse economic and security implications on the economy.
“Besides, there is a subsisting policy concerning the importation of items that can be produced locally, which majority of them are smuggled through the border. No sovereign state will allow free movement of goods and persons that can cause havoc to its economy.
“Whatever diplomatic agreements were signed, they are within a set of guidelines that should be mutually beneficial to all the states within the economic regions. Any deviation would not only be tantamount to breach, but would create diplomatic friction and distortion of economic cooperation,” he said.
While issues of timing and short term effects have been raised by some, Emma Wagbo, an economist pointed out that country specifics are acceptable in policy decisions, especially when time lags create an opportunity to evade well thought-out plans.
“Irrespective of the immediate pains as reflected in the form of escalating food prices, Nigeria has recorded some gains in the process. Nigeria should have built structures within the economy that will stimulate local production and manufacturing of goods at competitive costs, but until we get there, let us start with what is on ground now. I think it is the only way to deal with policy riggers here,” he said.
The closure of Nigeria’s land borders, which came without warning ‪on August 21‬, has opened up neighboring countries exploitation of liberalism to the detriment of the economy. Now they are angry with Nigeria, yet there own borders remain tight.
According to a BBC report, the action of the government is affecting trade across the sub-region. The report further disclosed that that the bustling borders have come to a standstill, with goods rotting and queues of lorries waiting at checkpoints in the hope the crossings will reopen, adding that Nigeria’s neighbours are angry, saying the smuggling of rice mainly prompted the action .
Smuggling in numbers 
Nigeria, with a population estimated at about 196 million, has a huge demand for rices. So, it’s mainly rice, among other commodities, that are more smuggled. The notorious route for such illegality is Cotonou, Benin’s commercial hub, targeting Nigeria’s economic capital, Lagos.
The World Bank report showed that Benin’s economy is heavily reliant on the informal transit trade with Nigeria, which accounts for about 20% of its GDP and national income. About 80 per cent of Benin’s imports are not for their consumptions, but onward movement to Nigeria, with the majority finding their way in the country illegally. While bans have stopped the illegal trade over the years, it was time to experiment with total closure of the land borders.
This same border is also a major corridor for second-hand cars to Nigeria, where there is a ban on importing cars that are more than 15 years old. A report claimed that Luxembourg-based shipping company, BIM e-solutions, Sid that an average of 10,000 cars arrive at the Cotonou port from Europe monthly.
But sources from the Nigeria Customs Service, agreed that many of these cars are smuggled across the border to Nigeria. This year, former Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Maikanti Baru, said petrol smugglers were taking about 10 million litres out of the country each day. It’s indeed, high time drastic measures were introduced.
CBN interventions 
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) since 2015, has raised its bar in the pursuit of import substitution policy, particularly targeting food production and other commodities that can be produced locally. While the country, since 2013, has been allowing rice importation through the ports, it is with a 70 per cent tax. The huge tax was to discourage its import and attract investment in its production locally, as well as protect the fledgling local farmers.
Clearly, the monetary policy transmission mechanism in Nigeria is inhibited due to numerous factors, especially the menace of smugglers. For example, despite efforts by the apex bank through its development finance activities to raise domestic production, especially in rice production, the menace of smuggling has continued to affect local production.
A Nigerian maritime site- Ships and Ports, noted that in 2014, Benin lowered its tariffs on rice imports from 35 per cent to seven per cent, while Cameroon erased it completely. These were to counter Nigeria’s 70 per cent tax and flood the market with rice at cheaper rate.
But CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, stated that since the border closure, Nigerian rice, as well as poultry farmers have been benefitting, as they have been able to market their accumulated produce, which sales were hampered by illegal importation and smuggling.
The CBN Governor said the development had negatively affected Nigeria’s economy, adding that the government was  determined to keep the borders closed until all engagements in connection with the issues were concluded with the neighbouring countries to have them halt the use of their ports as lunch-pads for smuggling items into Nigeria.
“Between 2015 and now, we have seen an astronomical rise in the number of companies, corporates and individuals that are setting up mills, integrated mills and even small mills in the various areas.
“The Central Bank and agriculture ministry have been at the centre of not just encouraging the production of rice in Nigeria, but also funding these farmers to buy seedlings, fertilizers or some of the herbicides that they need for their rice production.
“We have embarked on programmes, warning those who involved in the business of smuggling or dumping of rice in the country to desist or we will close their account in the banking industry. And that is coming very effectively.
“The Chairman of the Rice Processors Association and owner of Umza Rice in Kano State, called me and said that all the rice millers and processors are carrying in their warehouses nothing less than 25,000 metric tons of milled rice.
“Secondly, we also have members of the Poultry Association of Nigeria who also complained that they have thousands of crates of eggs that they could not sell, even some processed chickens that they could not sell, due to smuggling and dumping of poultry products into Nigeria.
“A week after the borders were closed, the same rice millers association called to tell us that all the rice that they had in their warehouses have all been sold. Indeed, a lot of people have been depositing money in their accounts and they have even been telling them to ‘please hold on don’t even pay money yet until we finish processing your rice.’
“The Poultry Associations have also come to say that they have sold all their eggs, they have sold all their processed chickens and that demand is rising.
“So, when you ask, what is the benefit of the border closure on the economy of Nigeria, the outcome on the two products- poultry and rice, is the answer. The benefit is that it has helped to create jobs for our people, it has helped to bring our integrated rice milling that we have in the country back into business again and they are making money.
“Our rural communities are bubbling because there are activities, as rice farmers are able to sell their paddy. The poultry business is also doing well, and also maize farmers who produce maize from which feeds are produced are also doing business. These are the benefits,” he said.
The Director of Corporate Communications Department, CBN, Isaac Okorafor, reiterating the importance of producing goods locally, said that jobs will be created and the value of the Naira will appreciate, while the domestic economy will become vibrant.
He said explained that these importers should come and establish in the country, as the nation cannot continue to consume other countries’ goods, noting that no country has ever developed that way.
“We have to emulate the Chinese economy. When China began manufacturing, people referred to their products as inferior. Today, China is leading in the manufacturing of most products in the world.
Nigeria can become another China. What our people are doing in Aba, in Abia State is an encouraging example. CBN has directed commercial banks to give loans to medium and small scale industries to encourage local production,” he said.
Already, the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd.), has said that tax revenue profile had gone up, as cargoes destined for Benin now arrive at the Nigerian ports.
Ali was quoted as saying that “one day in September, a record N9.2 billion was collected, which had never happened before. After the closure of the border and since then, we have maintained an average of about N4.7 billion to N5.8 billion on a daily basis, which is far more than we used to collect.”
Border closures in retrospect 
United States President, Donald Trump, during his campaign, said he was going to pay attention to the country’s borders and inflow of goods and services. He favored investments and productions in the country, otherwise everything would be subject to negotiations. Today, he has built walls against Mexico to check movement in persons. He is also going tough with China and its products.
Reports also show that the former Gold Coast, currently Ghana, once placed embargo on Nigerian immigrants and sent some that are already in the country away. Years later, the administration of Alhaji Shehu Shagari; of blessed memory, Nigeria retaliated, which saw the forming of the popular cliche “Ghana-Must-Go.”
President Olusegun Obasanjo, also ordered the closure of this same Benin land borders, as the country’s citizen, Ahmadu Tidjani, carried out a criminal exploit in Nigeria. It was only when the country’s authorities arrested and handed him over to the Nigeria that the border was reopened.
Why has the country failed to stop its territory from being a lunch-pad for smugglers against Nigeria?
Already, the Federal Government has said that the nation’s land borders would remain shut until the country’s neighbours agree to implement mutual anti-smuggling policies. By January 2020, it would be seen whether the countries have agreed to the terms of the border reopening.






How would you react to the high rate of issuing executive orders in the country by President Muhammadu Buhari?
Section 5 of the 1999 Constitution gives executive powers to the president. But any executive order he signs that requires constitutional amendment or legislative enactment has to go to the National Assembly for enactment. Executive orders can only work when they are purely for the purpose of executing the powers of the president in furtherance of governance. The president cannot in anyway legislate; he cannot also interpret the law. So, whatever executive order he issues must be in aid of his powers as the president. It has to do with administrative matters and must have nothing to do with legislative enactment. If there is an issue that requires legislative enactment, executive order cannot stand in its place.
What you are saying is that under the constitution, there is a place for executive orders?
Yes! In furtherance of executing his powers as the president, the president can sign an executive order.
Under what situations is the president supposed to issue an executive order?
As I said earlier, the president is supposed to execute the laws of the country. So, if there is any legislative enactment which has given powers to the president to do certain things and he feels that these things should be brought to the fore and be carried out, he can sign executive orders in furtherance of his executive powers. But it can’t be beyond his powers. He cannot do anything that is not authorised by the constitution. So, he can only sign it in furtherance of the execution of his executive powers as provided in the constitution.
You know he had signed executive orders in respect of ease of doing business. The executive order was to ensure that all the agencies of government work together to ensure that those who come to Nigeria to do business do not suffer cogs in the wheel. The orders were in furtherance of his executive powers. But he cannot sign executive orders with regards to where certain acts require legislative enactment. Any executive order must be in furtherance of the execution of his powers; it cannot be in conflict.
Does the National Assembly have the powers to override any of such orders signed by the president?
If the president signs an order that requires legislative enactment, they can override. If he signs an order that is not in furtherance of the execution of his executive powers, they can correct him. If he also signs an executive order that calls for a legislative input and because they are our representatives they feel that the order should be suspended pending the time there would be an input by members of the NASS, he has to suspend it. If he feels otherwise, the matter can be tested in court whether what the NASS has done is in consonance with the constitution or whether the executive order the president has signed is in conflict or in accordance with the constitution. So, if there is any conflict at any point in time, it can be resolved by the judiciary.
But I think that in exercise of his executive powers, there should be non-interference by the other arms of the government unless there is conflict.
The present administration actually brought the concept of executive order to the fore in the country. How does it work in other climes? 
It is because we saw it being practised in the United States of America. You know we copy the U.S. virtually in everything. When Donald Trump emerged as U.S. president, we saw him sign some executive orders. And our constitution is similar to the American constitution. So, there were questions as to why our presidents had not been signing executive orders all these while even in areas they were supposed to be in action. So, this president now took a cue. So, it was Trump that actually gave us the hint that the president can use executive orders to accomplish the laws.
But the executive orders too can be interpreted. The judiciary has shut down most of the executive orders Trump signed in the U.S. Remember that he signed executive orders that had to do with immigration and they went to court and those orders were declared null and void. So, anyone that feels that an executive order has infringed on his/her rights can approach the judiciary for an interpretation of the order. It is not as if executive orders cannot be challenged in court once the president signs them; they can be challenged by an individual who feels an executive order has affected him/her adversely and should not stand.
With the rate the president has been signing executive orders, do you think he is abusing the concept? 
As I said, if anyone feels there has been a breach or that an executive order is going beyond the powers of the president, he/she can challenge it in court. We might as well develop our jurisprudence from that angle. It’s a new phenomenon here and it’s becoming a practice. So, I don’t see anything wrong in challenging an executive order in court if anyone feels that it has gone beyond the constitutional powers of the president or that he has not exercised it appropriately or that his constitutional, fundamental or civil rights have been affected adversely. The court will interpret whether what the president has done is constitutional or not.
There is an instance where Buhari’s executive order was challenged in court. I recall that sometime last year, some lawyers filed a suit at the Federal High Court, Abuja, to challenge Executive Order 6, which provides for the interim seizure of assets linked to ongoing criminal trials and investigations. Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu then ruled that the order was within the powers of the president. So, executive orders can be tested in court if anyone feels he/her rights have been infringed upon.
What is your view on the latest executive order by the president on withdrawal of legitimate firearms from Nigerians?
I don’t think that is a well thought out executive order. First, before you issue an executive order, there must be an independent research on what you want to sign as an executive order. Now, you signed an executive order asking that people should return their legitimate gun licenses and their guns. But was there an independent research carried out to know whether those who have legitimate licenses and firearms caused the spate of insecurity in the country? Or was the spate of insecurity caused by those who don’t have licenses? Most of those committing these crimes and causing so much havoc in the system are those bearing AK47 and other sophisticated weapons that they did not even obtain licenses to carry. They are the ones killing people all over the place. Now, you are asking those who are using their licensed guns for hunting and protection of their lives to return them whereas there is no independent research carried out to indict them.
So, research must establish that these people who have licenses are the ones killing people all over the place or giving these guns to armed robbers and other criminal elements before such executive order can be issued. If that is established, there is no need of asking them to hold their licenses. But if there is no independent research and finding, will it be right for the president to ask those who have legitimate guns and licenses to return them and thereby making them to become preys to those carrying sophisticated weapons without licenses that are causing havoc in the system. So, I think the president is putting the cart before the horse.






“We have an indication that chemical weapons were used in the Idlib region, but for now it has not been verified,” Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian told a parliamentary commission.
“We’re being cautious because we consider that chemical weapons use has to be proven and be lethal, in which case we can react,” he said.
President Emmanuel Macron has made use of chemical weapons by the Syrian government a “red line” that would trigger a military reprisal against the regime of President Bashar al-Assad.
The United States has also threatened reprisals if the suspected Idlib attack is proven.
Russia and Turkey reached an agreement last September that nominally protects Idlib amid fears for the safety of some three million people in the northwestern area of Syria.
But Syria’s former Al-Qaeda affiliate, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, has seized a large part of the province and adjoining areas, triggering a regime offensive that includes strikes by Syrian and Russian airplanes.
International inspectors say that Assad’s forces have carried out a series of chemical attacks in the course of the brutal civil war, which has killed more than 370,000 people and displaced millions since 2011.
A sarin gas attack in April 2017 in the town of Khan Sheikhun killed 83 people, according to the United Nations, leading US President Donald Trump to order a strike by 59 cruise missiles on a Syrian air base.
And France joined Britain and the US in launching missile strikes on three suspected chemical weapons sites in Syria in April 2018 after a suspected chemical attack in Douma.






(FILES) In this file photo US Ambassador Gordon Sondland (C) arrives at the US Capitol October 17, 2019, in Washington, DC. – President Donald Trump faces more potentially damning testimony in the Ukraine scandal as a critical week of public impeachment hearings opens Tuesday in the House of Representatives. Most significantly, they include Gordon Sondland, the US ambassador to the European Union, who allegedly transmitted to the Ukraine government Trump’s demands for help in finding dirt on his Democratic rivals ahead of next year’s presidential election. (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)
Numerous witnesses have fingered Gordon Sondland, the US ambassador to the European Union, as a central conveyor of Trump’s demands that Ukraine investigates potential 2020 rival Joe Biden in exchange for unfreezing US aid to the country.
In earlier closed-door testimony Sondland repeated almost 100 times that he “can’t remember” and “can’t recall” when pressed over his dealings with Trump and Ukraine.
Initially maintaining that he was unaware that US military aid was being held up in exchange for a probe, he later made a humiliating about-face, amending his testimony to state that he did, in fact, know this was the case.
In the second week of televised hearings in the House Intelligence Committee, the hotel tycoon-turned-diplomat is expected to be confronted with powerful evidence that could force him into refusing to answer, or dramatically testifying against the US leader.
 Trump pressure ‘improper’ 
Sondland’s testimony will come a day after Republicans struggled to defend Trump against mounting allegations of abuse of power and charges that he sought to “extort” Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky.
During nine hours of testimony Tuesday, four witnesses described how Trump, Sondland and Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani sought for months to persuade Ukraine to investigate both Biden and a baseless claim that the Kiev government helped Democrats in the 2016 US elections.
Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman, a respected member of the White House National Security Council, told the committee that Trump’s July 25 phone call with Zelensky — seeking a “favor” to investigate Biden and the vague 2016 election meddling claim — was “inappropriate,” “improper” and a “partisan play.”
“Frankly I couldn’t believe what I was hearing,” Vindman said. 
“It is improper for the president of the United States to demand a foreign government to investigate a US citizen and a political opponent.” 
Sitting next to Vindman, Jennifer Williams, a foreign policy advisor to Vice President Mike Pence, said she too had doubts about the “unusual” July 25 call, which they both monitored from a separate room.
“The references to specific individuals and investigations such as former vice president Biden and his son, struck me as political in nature, given that the former vice president is a political opponent of the president,” she told the panel.
 Conspiracy theories 
Two other witnesses in a second session, former US special envoy to Ukraine Kurt Volker and National Security Council aide Tim Morrison, supported allegations the White House improperly sought the political assistance.
But both assigned more blame to an “irregular” diplomatic track in the hands of Giuliani and Sondland.
Volker said he worried about “conspiracy theories” that Giuliani “was conveying… to the president.” 
Morrison, who only took his position in mid-July, said his predecessor warned him of “the Gordon problem,” referring to Sondland’s Ukraine dealings away from standard US diplomatic channels. 
 Character attacks 
Republicans and the White House continued to insist that the investigation, which could see Trump impeached possibly as soon as the end of the year, was a political witch hunt.
“We have learned nothing new in today’s illegitimate ‘impeachment proceedings,'” said White House Spokesperson Stephanie Grisham.
“Today we are witnessing the Ukraine hoax, the direct-to-TV sequel to the Russia collusion hoax,” said Devin Nunes, the senior Republican on the Intelligence Committee.
But rather than confront the evidence, they turned to character attacks on the witnesses, including questioning the allegiance of Kiev-born Vindman, a 20-year US Army veteran, to the United States. 
Vindman, dressed in military uniform decorated with his Purple Heart and other commendations, countered that he had raised questions about the July 25 phone call “out of a sense of duty,” and called Republicans attacks on public servants “reprehensible.”
 Sondland close to Trump 
Sondland’s appearance could generate fireworks. He is close to Trump — he was named ambassador to the EU in 2017 after donating $1 million to the president’s inauguration festivities.
David Holmes, an official at the US embassy in Ukraine, told investigators last week that, after a phone call to Trump from a Kiev restaurant, Sondland said the president sought political benefits from the bilateral relationship.
Trump “did not give a shit about Ukraine,” but cares about “big stuff that benefits the president, like the Biden investigation,” Holmes testified.
Testimony like that could force Sondland into a difficult choice between protecting himself by giving evidence against Trump, or facing his own legal problems by refusing to answer questions.
The White House “should be deeply concerned about Sondland’s testimony tomorrow,” said University of Alabama Law Professor Joyce Vance.
Turkish-backed Syrian fighters evacuate a wounded comrade near the border town of Ras al-Ain on October 13, 2019, as Turkey and its allies continue their assault on Kurdish-held border towns in northeastern Syria. – Turkish forces and their proxies pushed deep into Syria Sunday, moving closer to completing their assault’s initial phase, while Washington announced it was pulling out 1,000 troops from the country’s north. (Photo by Nazeer Al-khatib / AFP)
Battles raged in the key Syrian border town of Ras al-Ain as dawn broke on Wednesday, with Kurdish fighters trying to hold off the onslaught by Turkish-backed forces, now in its second week. 
The fighting has triggered a flurry of diplomacy among major powers, with US President Donald Trump dispatching Pence along with his top diplomat Mike Pompeo to Turkey amid the greatest crisis in relations for decades between the NATO allies. 
The Kremlin said it would host President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for a meeting with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in the coming days, to ensure the operation does not turn into an all-out war between Turkey and Syria.
Russia has stepped into the void caused by Trump’s withdrawal of US troops from northern Syria, deploying patrols to prevent clashes between Syrian and Turkish forces.
Trump — facing mounting criticism in Washington over his decision to pull 1,000 troops out of the conflict zone, as well as an unrelated impeachment inquiry — has hit back at Erdogan, slapping sanctions on three cabinet officials and raising tariffs on Turkish steel.
Pence said he would meet with Erdogan on Thursday and “voice the United States’ commitment to reach an immediate ceasefire and the conditions for a negotiated settlement”, his office said in a statement.
He reiterated that Trump will pursue “punishing economic sanctions” until a resolution is reached.
But Erdogan remained unfazed by the pressure, telling reporters: “They tell us ‘to declare a ceasefire’. We can never declare a ceasefire.”
The operation has widespread support in Turkey, where decades of bloody insurgency by Kurdish militants have killed tens of thousands of people.
But Western powers are spooked that the operation is endangering the battle against the Islamic State group, which was led on the ground by Kurdish forces. Thousands of IS prisoners are held in Kurdish-run camps in the region. 
French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said Wednesday that the camps were not “currently” under threat from the operation, but Europe has taken an increasingly tough line with Turkey.
Britain and Spain became the latest powers to suspend military exports to Turkey on Tuesday. Canada made a similar move.
 Kurds try to defend border 
The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) have mounted a desperate defence to the east of Ras al-Ain, using tunnels, berms and trenches.
An AFP correspondent said clashes around the town were ongoing on Wednesday despite Ankara’s repeated claims it had captured the area.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Kurdish fighters had launched “a large counterattack against Turkish forces and their Syrian proxies near Ras al-Ain” on Tuesday and reported, “fierce combat” in the west of the town as well as in Tal Abyad.
Since launching their assault on October 9, Turkish-backed forces have secured more than 100 kilometres (60 miles) of the border, but Ras al-Ain — Siri Kani in Kurdish — has held out.
Erdogan, who like Trump faces political difficulties at home, wants to create a buffer zone stretching 30 kilometres (20 miles) from the border into Syrian territory.
He wants to destroy Kurdish hopes of an autonomous enclave that could serve as a launching pad for attacks in Turkey, as well as resettle some of the 3.6 million Syrian refugees it is hosting.
“God willing, we will quickly secure the region stretching from Manbij to our border with Iraq,” Erdogan said.
The offensive has killed dozens of civilians, mostly on the Kurdish side, and displaced at least 160,000 people.
 Russia fills void 
Syrian forces have returned to the region for the first time in years, raising their flag in Manbij as part of a deal with the Kurds.
Russia said its military police were patrolling a zone separating regime and Turkish troops, in cooperation with Ankara.
With Trump’s critics saying that he handed over US allies and stretches of Syria to Russia, the United States tried to play down Moscow’s role.
“The number of Russians is very, very limited. But it only takes a few Russians with a big Russian flag to get everybody to pay attention,” a senior administration official told reporters in Washington.
Meanwhile, at least three French women escapees were “retrieved” by IS, according to messages they sent to their lawyer seen by AFP.
An SDF official on Twitter Tuesday said more IS relatives had tried and failed to escape the overcrowded camp of Al-Hol in eastern Syria.
Trump said Ambassador Kim Darroch had “not served the UK well” and that he and his administration were “not big fans” of the envoy.
Darroch had said Trump’s presidency could “crash and burn” and “end in disgrace”, according to a cache of secret cables and briefing notes sent back to Britain seen by the Mail on Sunday newspaper.
“We don’t really believe this administration is going to become substantially more normal; less dysfunctional; less unpredictable; less faction riven; less diplomatically clumsy and inept,” Darroch allegedly wrote in one dispatch.
The paper said the most damning comments by Darroch described Trump, who was received by Queen Elizabeth II during a state visit to Britain just last month, as “insecure” and “incompetent”.
A memo sent following the controversial visit said the president and his team had been “dazzled” by the visit but warned Britain might not remain “flavour of the month” because “this is still the land of America First”.
He reportedly wrote that the “vicious infighting and chaos” inside the White House — widely reported in the US but dismissed by Trump as “fake news” — was “mostly true”.
Asked about the leak, Trump told reporters in the US: “The ambassador has not served the UK well, I can tell you that.
“We are not big fans of that man and he has not served the UK well. So I can understand it, and I can say things about him but I won’t bother.”
The UK foreign ministry said it would carry out a formal investigation into the leak.
Jeremy Hunt, the foreign minister, distanced himself from Darroch’s remarks, saying: “It’s really important to say that the ambassador was doing his job as an ambassador which is to give frank reports and personal opinions about what’s happening in the country where he works, and that’s his job to send back those reports but they are personal opinions, not the opinions of the British Government, not my opinion.
“And we continue to think that under President Trump the United States administration is both highly effective and the best possible friend of Britain on the international stage.”
 From 2017 to now 
Darroch is one of Britain’s most experienced diplomats whose posting in Washington began in January, 2016, prior to Trump winning the presidency.
The Mail on Sunday said the memos, likely leaked by someone within Britain’s sprawling civil service, cover a period beginning in 2017.
In one of the most recent reported dispatches filed on June 22, Darroch criticised Trump’s fraught foreign policy on Iran, which has prompted fears in global capitals of a military conflict, as “incoherent” and “chaotic”.
He allegedly said the president’s assertion that he called off retaliatory missile strikes against the Iranian regime after a US drone was shot down because it risked killing 150 Iranians, “doesn’t stand up”.
“It’s more likely that he was never fully on board and that he was worried about how this apparent reversal of his 2016 campaign promises would look come 2020,” Darroch reportedly stated, referring to the next presidential election.
Britain’s Foreign Office did not dispute the veracity of the memos.
“The British public would expect our ambassadors to provide ministers with an honest, unvarnished assessment of the politics in their country,” a spokeswoman said. 
“Their views are not necessarily the views of ministers or indeed the government,” she added, noting “we pay them to be candid”. 
“Our team in Washington have strong relations with the White House and no doubt that these will withstand such mischievous behaviour,” the spokeswoman said of the potential fallout from the leak.
An Australian government spokesperson confirmed Trump asked Morrison to investigate issues raised in Robert Mueller’s probe — which concluded that Russia tried to swing the 2016 election in the Republican’s favour.
The official said Australia “has always been ready to assist and cooperate with efforts that help shed further light on the matters under investigation”.
“The PM confirmed this readiness once again in conversation with the President.”
The revelation will fuel allegations Trump is using the power of the Oval Office and risking long-standing relationships with allies for his own political ends.
He is already facing impeachment for asking Ukraine’s leader to investigate his potential election rival, former vice president Joe Biden, and his son Hunter.
Mueller’s probe concluded in March and led to the conviction of several of Trump’s top aides for obstruction and lying to investigators.
But ahead of the 2020 election Trump has painted the probe and its findings as a “deep state” conspiracy, pointing to conservative media reports as evidence and urging the Justice Department to launch counter-investigations.
The New York Times, which first reported Trump’s Australian request, said the White House had restricted access to the transcript of the Trump-Morrison call, in a similar way to its handling of Trump’s recent call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Several other calls and meetings between Trump and foreign leaders, including Russia’s Vladimir Putin are now under scrutiny.
Separately, the Washington Post reported that Attorney General Bill Barr has had multiple contacts with officials and spies in Australia, Britain and Italy in a bid to investigate Mueller and US intelligence findings.
 State visit 
At Trump’s encouragement, Barr’s Justice Department is examining the roots of the Mueller probe, including the evidence that led the CIA, FBI and other intelligence agencies to declare that Russia did, in fact, interfere in 2016 to boost Trump.
Australia and Britain were both important because the original FBI Russia meddling probe was launched in July 2016 after the bureau received a tip from an Australian diplomat in Britain about a meeting between people tied to Russian intelligence and a Trump campaign official.
In a May letter to Barr and White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney — cited by Australian media Tuesday — the country’s ambassador in Washington also offered to help.
Morrison recently enjoyed a state visit to Washington and his close ties to Trump had already been facing scrutiny at home.
“It was risky for the Morrison government to get so cosy with Trump when almost no other government has done so,” said Emma Shortis of the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology.
“I think this development shows just how risky that is — Trump will come calling for favours, embroil you in controversy, and put relationships at risk.”
In a statement, the Justice Department defended contacts abroad and said Trump and Barr’s roles were to help investigator John Durham make contacts.
“Mr Durham is gathering information from numerous sources, including a number of foreign countries,” said Justice Department spokesperson Kerri Kupec.
“At Attorney General Barr’s request, the president has contacted other countries to ask them to introduce the attorney general and Mr Durham to appropriate officials,” she said.
US President Donald Trump at the White House October 9, 2019, in Washington, DC. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Trump will gather with thousands of his ferociously devoted core supporters at the basketball arena in Minneapolis.
The Minnesota city is in the liberal heartland, giving Trump a juicy target for his favored rhetoric about a supposed far-left takeover of the United States.
Leftist Somali-American congresswoman Ilhan Omar represents Minneapolis and Trump, who has made Omar a kind of bogey figure among his right-wing supporters, is likely to tear into her.
On Friday, he will take the “Make America Great Again” show to Louisiana.
– Respite from DC troubles –
The focus on reelection in 2020 provides a respite for Trump after a turbulent two weeks.
Democrats who have been accusing Trump of abusing his office throughout his first term believe they are finally cornering the president with an impeachment probe into his dealings with Ukraine.
Trump allegedly pressured new Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky to restart a dormant, largely discredited corruption probe of Joe Biden, the leading Democratic candidate to take on Trump next year.
The president has pushed back hard — refusing to cooperate with the impeachment inquiry — and seeking to turn the entire scandal into a boost for his reelection campaign.
But public support for impeachment is slowly growing, with a new poll from the often pro-Trump Fox News showing 51 percent now back his removal from office. “Whoever their Pollster is, they suck,” Trump responded on Twitter.
With control of the lower house of Congress, Democrats are likely to impeach in the coming months, even if few believe the Republican-led Senate will actually convict Trump and force him from office.
Trump argues that his now-infamous July 25 phone call with Zelensky did not feature any kind of pressure, but innocently proposed pursuing corruption.
He got a boost Thursday when Zelensky backed his version of events, telling journalists “there was no blackmail.”
Democrats argue that given the vast power differential between the two leaders, Trump did not need to make explicit threats and that his request to Zelensky for “a favor” was enough.
On Wednesday, Biden gave a blistering speech in which he called for impeachment, accusing Trump of “shooting holes in the constitution.”
According to The Wall Street Journal on Thursday, two Ukrainian-born men linked to Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani — who is at the heart of the controversy — have been arrested over alleged campaign finance violations.
– Restless Republicans –
The Republican Party has largely stayed behind Trump over the Biden scandal. Only a handful of high-profile senators have broken ranks, lambasting the president’s behavior.
But a highly unusual uproar broke out this week in the party over Trump’s decision to abandon Kurdish allies in Syria to an offensive by the far bigger US ally Turkey.
Trump is casting his withdrawal of a small number of US troops from northern Syria as part of his promise to disengage the United States from Middle Eastern wars.
However, the withdrawal effectively gives Turkey the green light for a cross-border offensive aimed at the same Kurdish militias that had previously been fighting alongside US soldiers against the Islamic State group.
Top Republicans are openly rebelling against Trump over what they call a betrayal.
In a bizarre justification on Wednesday, Trump told journalists that the Kurds had not always been US allies, noting they did not “help us in Normandy” during World War II.
The Kurds say they lost about 11,000 people in the US-led fight against the Islamic State.
Senior Republican Senator Lindsey Graham argued the US administration had “shamelessly abandoned” the Kurds.






“The report of Iran capturing CIA spies is totally false. Zero truth,” Trump tweeted.
“Just more lies and propaganda (like their shot down drone) put out by a Religious Regime that is Badly Failing and has no idea what to do.”
“Their Economy is dead and will get much worse. Iran is a total mess!” Trump added.
Earlier Monday a top Iranian counter-intelligence official told local reporters that the 17 suspects were all Iranians working in “sensitive centers” and the private sector who had acted independently of each other.
Some have been tried and sentenced to death.
The CIA had no immediate comment and usually refuses to comment on reports of its covert agents and informants falling under arrest or being killed in the field.
Trump’s denial was extraordinary in that sense and drew criticism from the intelligence community.
“There’s a reason the government NEVER comments on such claims. The next time an allegation goes unanswered, it will be assumed to be true,” tweeted former National Security Council spokesman Ned Price.
Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta, 50, was serving as a federal prosecutor in Florida when his office entered into the controversial plea agreement with lawyers for financier Jeffrey Epstein.
Epstein, 66, was charged on Monday by the US Attorney for the Southern District of New York with one count of sex trafficking of minors and one count of conspiracy to commit sex trafficking of minors.
The well-connected Epstein, whose friends have included Trump, former president Bill Clinton and Prince Andrew, faced similar charges in Florida a decade ago but managed to escape a stiff sentence through the plea agreement with Acosta’s office.
The plea deal was kept the secret from Epstein’s victims until his sentencing. Under the deal, he pleaded guilty to a state charge of soliciting prostitution from a minor and served 13 months in county jail.
“@SecretaryAcosta must step down,” Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives, said in a tweet. 
“As US Attorney, he engaged in an unconscionable agreement w/Jeffrey Epstein kept the secret from courageous, young victims preventing them from seeking justice. This was known by (President Trump) when he appointed him to the cabinet. #AcostaResign.”
New York Senator Chuck Schumer, the top Democrat in the Senate, also called for Acosta to step down.
“Epstein should have been behind bars years ago but unfortunately Secretary of Labor Alex Acosta cut Epstein a sweetheart deal,” Schumer said.
“We cannot have as one of the leading appointed officials in America someone who has done this,” he added.
Acosta on Tuesday welcomed the renewed prosecution of Epstein.
“With the evidence available more than a decade ago, federal prosecutors insisted that Epstein go to jail, register as a sex offender and put the world on notice that he was a sexual predator,” Acosta tweeted.
“Now that new evidence and additional testimony is available, the NY prosecution offers an important opportunity to more fully bring him to justice,” he said.
Epstein pleaded not guilty on Monday to the charges which carry a maximum of 45 years in prison. A bail hearing was set for Thursday.
According to prosecutors, Epstein sexually exploited dozens of underage girls at his homes in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Florida, between 2002 and 2005. Some were as young as 14.
“Spoke to @TigerWoods to congratulate him on the great victory he had in yesterday’s @TheMasters, & to inform him that because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE.
“I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM,” Trump tweeted.
The victory on Sunday was one of the greatest comebacks in sports history, as the 43-year-old ended an 11-year major title drought having overcome personal and professional setbacks including a highly-public divorce and multiple surgeries.
The one-stroke win at Augusta National led to an outpouring of support from sports greats and politicians including Trump.
Trump, an avid golfer, and Woods have played together in the past including in February when the pair joined golf great Jack Nicklaus for a round at Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter, Florida.
Trump appeared to follow the action at this year’s Masters closely, tweeting well-wishes to the field on Saturday and encouraging people to tune in when Woods had the lead with just two holes left to play on Sunday.
“Congratulations to @TigerWoods, a truly Great Champion!” Trump tweeted shortly after Woods sank a short putt to secure his 15th major title.
“Love people who are great under pressure. What a fantastic life comeback for a really great guy!” he added later.
Spoke to @TigerWoods to congratulate him on the great victory he had in yesterday’s @TheMasters, & to inform him that because of his incredible Success & Comeback in Sports (Golf) and, more importantly, LIFE, I will be presenting him with the PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 15, 2019

The medal is the highest civilian honour in the United States and is given annually to people who have made outstanding contributions to the security or national interests of the country, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavours.
Since taking office Trump has given the award to several athletes including former professional NFL players Roger Staubach and Alan Page and late professional baseball player George Herman “Babe” Ruth (Jr). 
Trump appeared to be clarifying a tweet he wrote on Wednesday on Xi, trade relations, and Hong Kong, which he ended by saying “Personal meeting?” That was taken by some as Trump offering to meet with the Chinese president.
Trump has been reticent to criticize China’s stance on Hong Kong, indicating he regards the unrest as an internal matter for Beijing, while he focuses on negotiations to resolve a grinding trade war between the United States and China.
“Of course China wants to make a deal. Let them work humanely with Hong Kong first!” Trump tweeted Wednesday.
But State Department officials and top US lawmakers spoke out in defence of the protesters and warned Beijing to respect the territory’s autonomy.
The call for Xi to meet with activists came as thousands of Chinese military personnel were seen assembling in a sports stadium in Shenzhen, just across the border with Hong Kong.
China’s ambassador to London warned on Thursday that Beijing will not “sit by and watch” and is ready to “quell the unrest swiftly” if the crisis in Hong Kong becomes “uncontrollable.”
The Press Trust of India news agency quoted officials as saying one Indian soldier died and four were wounded when Pakistani troops opened fire on forwarding posts and villages along the LoC in the Poonch district on Tuesday.
Both India and Pakistan are nuclear powers and the situation in Kashmir, divided between them since 1947, is further complicated by the fact that China also claims part of the Himalayan region.
Trump -- who has previously spoken of his willingness to mediate -- said he would raise the situation over the weekend with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Both men are expected in France for a summit of the Group of Seven industrialised nations.
"Kashmir is a very complicated place. You have Hindus and you have the Muslims and I wouldn't say they get along so great," Trump told reporters at the White House.
"I will do the best I can to meditate," he added.
At least 4,000 people have been detained in Indian-controlled Kashmir, according to security and government sources, since early August when authorities imposed a communications blackout and restricted freedom of movement in the region.
Highlighting the growing international concern, a senior US official, who has just returned from a visit to the region, called on India Tuesday to quickly release detainees and restore basic liberties.
"We continue to be very concerned by reports of detentions, and continued restrictions on the residents of the region," the State Department official told reporters.
"We urge respect for individual rights, compliance with legal procedures and inclusive dialogue," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Officials in France said that President Emmanuel Macron would bring up Kashmir with Modi when the two meet in Paris ahead of the G7 summit.
 Johnson speaks to Modi 
Earlier this year India and Pakistan again came close to all-out conflict over the region after a militant attack in Indian-held Kashmir in February was claimed by a group based in Pakistan, sparking tit-for-tat airstrikes.
India has bristled at any suggestion of foreign mediation and strenuously denied a claim by Trump last month that Modi had invited him to act a peace broker.
It was also left seething when the UN Security Council held its first formal meeting on Kashmir in nearly half a century last week, saying it would not accept "international busybodies... tell(ing) us how to run our lives."
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson told Modi in a phone call on Tuesday that the Kashmir dispute must be resolved between India and Pakistan alone, Downing Street said.
An Indian statement said Modi had raised with Johnson the "violence and vandalism perpetrated by a large mob against the High Commission of India in London" on August 15.
Several thousand people had protested in London that day over India's Kashmir move. Police separated them from a smaller pro-Indian counter-demonstration and made at least one arrest.
 'Terrorist' killed 
Clashes are common between Indian security forces and militants opposed to Indian rule, with tens of thousands of people killed in the past 30 years, most of them civilians, adding to public resentment towards New Delhi.
But the latest gun battle north Kashmir's Baramulla district, reported by Kashmir police on Wednesday, since the August 5 move.
"One terrorist killed... Arms and ammunition recovered. Our colleague SPO (special police officer) Billal attained martyrdom. SI (subinspector) Amardeep Parihar injured in the incident is being treated at Army Hospital," Kashmir Zone Police said on Twitter.
A later tweet said that the dead militant was identified as a local man "affiliated" with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).
LeT is a UN-listed militant organisation based in Pakistan and is accused by India and Washington of masterminding the four-day Mumbai attacks in 2008.
A replacement -- the White House's fourth national security chief in less than three years -- would be named next week, Trump said.
Bolton, who had been scheduled to give a press conference at the White House on an unrelated matter, denied being fired and insisted that he had resigned.
The news, coming days after Trump caused an uproar by revealing he was cancelling secret talks with Afghanistan's Taliban, stunned Washington.
Bolton is a veteran and controversial figure closely linked to the invasion of Iraq and other aggressive US foreign policy decisions. He had been seen as one of the main driving forces in the White House's muscular approach to Iran, North Korea, Venezuela and elsewhere.
Famous for his large moustache and ever-present yellow legal pad, the hardline former US ambassador to the United Nations had pushed back against Trump's dramatic, though so far stumbling, attempts to negotiate with the Taliban and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
According to US media reports Trump's extraordinary but failed bid to fly Taliban leaders into the presidential retreat at Camp David last weekend sparked a major, final row.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo cautioned that Bolton's exit should not be interpreted as heralding strategy changes.
"I don't think any leader around the world should make any assumption that because someone of us departs that President Trump's foreign policy will change in a material way," Pompeo told reporters.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin underlined that Trump and top aides remain "completely-aligned" on Washington's crippling sanctions against Iran, known as the maximum pressure campaign.
But when asked if Trump was still open to meeting his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani at the United Nations General Assembly this month -- an event that would be as groundbreaking as his proposed Taliban talks -- Pompeo said "sure."
 Fired or resigned? 
As so often in the Trump presidency, the handling of the abrupt reshuffle appeared chaotic.
Bolton joins a stack of senior officials to have come and gone during the Republican businessman's tumultuous first term in office.
Since entering the White House in January 2017, Trump has had two secretaries of defence, as well as two acting secretaries, two secretaries of state, two CIA directors and a half dozen communications directors.
Trump, who has a habit of announcing major domestic and international news on his personal Twitter account, revealed the latest sacking at around midday. He said that he'd informed Bolton of his decision Monday night.
The White House press office, however, seemed unaware. It sent out a message announcing that Bolton would shortly be giving a press conference on terrorism issues alongside Pompeo.
Bolton disputed Trump's version of events, saying that the president had not fired him in person, as he claimed, late Monday.
"I offered to resign last night and President Trump said, 'Let's talk about it tomorrow,'" Bolton tweeted.
A Fox News television reporter said Bolton texted him to say: "Let's be clear, I resigned."
Mnuchin, one of the Trump administration's most senior figures, called a reporter's question about whether the national security team was in chaos "ridiculous."
 Anti-war camp boost? 
Trump came into office promising to extricate the United States from military entanglements. Bolton was often seen as offering a hawkish counterbalance, which Trump would then take into consideration.
"He has strong views on things but that's okay. I actually temper John, which is pretty amazing," Trump said in May.
Rob Malley, president of the International Crisis Group consultancy, said Bolton's departure could realign White House policy on Afghanistan, Iran, North Korea and Venezuela.
Trump "has had two voices whispering in his ears: the one counseling diplomacy and warning against conflict, the other recommending belligerence," he said.
"With Bolton gone, the second voice undeniably has lost its loudest proponent."
Prominent Republican Senator Rand Paul agreed, tweeting: "The President has great instincts on foreign policy and ending our endless wars. He should be served by those who share those views."
Democratic Senator Jack Reed said that "Bolton was wrong for this job," but added that removing him "isn't going to fix the failures plaguing this administration's dysfunctional foreign policy."
Reeed described the White House as being "in constant turmoil."
Pompeo said he did not want to discuss palace intrigue in the Trump administration.
However, he admitted what many had been saying for months: "There were many times Ambassador Bolton and I disagreed, that's to be sure."
"Bolton is a hyper-hawk. He was influential, and his removal will at least temper some administration policies," the Eurasia Group consultancy said.
The salvo fell the week before top US trade officials are due to return to China to rekindle trade talks that acrimoniously collapsed in May.
Trump said in a statement the global trade body uses “an outdated dichotomy between developed and developing countries that has allowed some WTO members to gain unfair advantages.”
Without “substantial progress” to reform WTO rules within 90 days, Washington will no longer treat as a developing country any WTO member “improperly declaring itself a developing country and inappropriately seeking the benefit of flexibilities in WTO rules and negotiations,” the statement said.
While the statement points to multiple countries that benefit from the designation, it focuses mostly on China.
“The WTO is BROKEN when the world’s RICHEST countries claim to be developing countries to avoid WTO rules and get special treatment. NO more!!! Today I directed the U.S. Trade Representative to take action so that countries stop CHEATING the system at the expense of the USA!,” Trump said on Twitter.
The statement notes that seven of the 10 wealthiest economies in the world claim developing country status, as do Mexico, South Korea, and Turkey, which are members of the Group of 20 leading economies.
Trump’s order directs the US Trade Representative’s office to “use all available means to secure changes at the WTO,” with the cooperation of other countries where possible.
It is unclear how the measure would change US policy but it likely would open the door to even more retaliatory tariffs against China and other countries.
‘Cannot go unchecked’ 
“When the wealthiest economies claim developing country status, they harm not only other developed economies but also economies that truly require special and differential treatment,” the statement said, and that “cannot continue to go unchecked.”
Developing country status in the WTO allows governments longer timelines for implementing free trade commitments, as well as the ability to protect some domestic industry and maintain subsidies.
The Trump administration has long complained that WTO rules are unfair to the United States, and has nearly throttled key WTO proceedings by refusing to name new members of the appellate body for the dispute settlement system.
In fact, the United States has won the majority of complaints it has file with the WTO.
And other governments, including the European Union, share concerns about China’s status in the WTO, refusing to recognize China as a market economy by the end of 2016.
The Trump administration also has rolled out new complaints against China using domestic trade rules almost weekly, covering a host of goods as varied as steel, industrial chemicals and rubber bands, imposing tariffs of 200 percent and more.






France said Sunday it was “worried” after Kurdish authorities reported that hundreds of relatives of foreign jihadists had escaped from a displacement camp in northern Syria in an area under Turkish assault.
France has been hit by a wave of jihadist attacks since 2015, many claimed or inspired by the Islamic State group, and has expressed concerns that a Turkish assault on Kurdish forces at the helm of the fight against IS in Syria would bolster the radicals.
Kurdish authorities and foreign powers have warned repeatedly that fighting could allow jihadists to break out of captivity.
“Of course we are worried about what could happen and that is why we want Turkey… to end” the assault “as quickly as possible”, government spokeswoman Sibeth Ndiaye told France 3 television.
She was reacting to the Kurdish administration in northern Syria announcing that Turkish bombardment near a displaced people’s camp had caused nearly 800 relatives of IS members to flee.
Kurdish forces also claimed that five IS jihadists escaped Friday from a prison in the northeast.
“I do not know, today, who exactly the people are who fled from the camp; it has been a worry for France since the beginning of this armed intervention,” said Ndiaye.
Families of jihadists in Syria, meanwhile, urged the government Sunday to repatriate French-born fighters and their children, following news of the breakout.
A grouping calling itself the “Collective of Unified Families” urged Paris in a statement Sunday “to urgently repatriate the innocent French children trapped in the war in Syria, and for security reasons… to repatriate their parents as well.”
France, which accounts for the largest number of European jihadists in Syria, insists that jihadists fighting abroad must be tried in the country where they are apprehended but has recently allowed back a handful of adults and several children of jihadists.
Paris maintains it will consider the files of citizens held in northeastern Syria on a case-by-case basis, and Ndiaye said Sunday the policy remains unchanged.
Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian has referred to French-born IS fighters as “enemies” of the nation.
‘Humanitarian crisis’
The families collective urged the government to act “before the situation gets worse, before innocent children are killed or injured… before the foreign prisoners disperse in the Syrian chaos”.
Fighting has engulfed northern Syria since Wednesday when Ankara launched a long-threatened offensive against the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), which it considers “terrorists” linked to insurgents in Turkey.
US President Donald Trump has been accused of abandoning a loyal ally in the fight against IS after ordering American troops to pull back from the border.
Ndiaye said that in a call to Trump on Friday, French President Emmanuel Macron had pressed upon him France’s concerns about the Turkish offensive, and underlined the need to prevent a resurgence of IS in the region.
France and Germany on Saturday suspended arms exports to Turkey.
Ndiaye said there were also fears for a “serious humanitarian crisis” in Syria, where the number of people fleeing has soared to 130,000.
Following protests by thousands of members of France’s Kurdish community on Saturday, some 300 gathered Sunday in the southern city of Toulouse to denounce Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan as an “assassin” and accuse Europe of doing little to nothing.
“If your life is peaceful, if you can sleep well at night, if there are no more attacks around you, it is thanks to the battle of the Kurds” against IS, said the group’s spokesman Nafiye Atac.






“I am in no hurry, our Military is rebuilt, new, and ready to go, by far the best in the world. Sanctions are biting & more added last night,” Trump said, adding that Tehran would not be allowed to obtain nuclear weapons. He said Iran is “a much weakened nation today.”
The US withdrew last year from an international deal designed to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons and has been reimposing sanctions on Tehran in a “maximum pressure” campaign to shape Iranian foreign policy, with the two countries now in an escalatory cycle.
An executive order signed by the president prohibits purchase or use of equipment from companies that pose “an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States or the security and safety of United States persons.”
“This administration will do what it takes to keep America safe and prosperous and to protect America from foreign adversaries,” White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said.
A senior White House official insisted that no particular country or company was targeted in the “company- and country-agnostic” declaration.
However, the measure — announced just as a US-China trade war deepens — is widely seen as prompted by already deep concerns over an alleged spying threat from Huawei.
“Restricting Huawei from doing business in the US will not make the US more secure or stronger; instead, this will only serve to limit the US to inferior yet more expensive alternatives,” Huawei said in a statement.
“In addition, unreasonable restrictions will infringe upon Huawei’s rights and raise other serious legal issues,” it said.
The Commerce Department followed up with a more direct hit on the tech giant, adding it to a blacklist that will make it much harder for the firm to use crucial US components in its array of phones, telecom gear, databases and other electronics.
Canada has also been dragged into the spat as it arrested a Huawei executive on a US extradition warrant related to Iran sanctions violations in December.
In what is seen as retaliation from Beijing, a former Canadian diplomat, Michael Kovrig, and a businessman, Michael Spavor, were detained on national security grounds, with Canada’s Globe and Mail newspaper reporting Thursday that they have now been formally arrested.
 ‘RIP Huawei’ 
Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) said it would add Huawei and its affiliates to its “entity list” over alleged Iran sanctions violations. 
The listing requires US firms to get a license from BIS for the sale or transfer of American technology to a company or person on the list.
“A license may be denied if the sale or transfer would harm US national security or foreign policy interests,” a Commerce Department statement said.
“This will prevent American technology from being used by foreign-owned entities in ways that potentially undermine US national security or foreign policy interests,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said.
US Senator Tom Cotton, from Trump’s Republican Party, tweeted: “@Huawei 5G, RIP. Thanks for playing.”
Huawei did not immediately comment on the blacklisting.
US officials have been trying to persuade allies not to allow China a role in building next-generation 5G mobile networks, warning that doing so would result in restrictions on sharing of information with the United States.
US government agencies are already banned from buying equipment from Huawei, a rapidly expanding leader in the 5G technology.
Beijing was already furious about US moves to limit the use of equipment from Chinese firms including Huawei and another company ZTE.
“For some time, the United States has abused its national power to deliberately discredit and suppress by any means specific Chinese enterprises, which is neither honourable nor fair,” foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said ahead of Trump’s executive order.
“We urge the US side to stop the unreasonable suppression of Chinese enterprises on the pretext of national security and to provide a fair and non-discriminatory environment,” the spokesman said.
 Trojan horse 
The US portrayal of Huawei as a national security danger dovetails with Washington’s wider complaint that Chinese companies are unfairly protected by the state, making fair trade impossible.
The move also threatens to further flare trade tensions just days after the US more than doubled tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese imports, which was met with retaliation in kind by Beijing. 
Washington and some European allies fear that Chinese economic expansion, particularly in the Belt and Road global infrastructure program, is part of a bid for geopolitical dominance.
Amid those worries, Huawei is portrayed as a Trojan horse that could leverage its ultra-rapid telecoms technology into a Chinese government spy network reaching deep into American society and business fields.
“Chinese telecom companies like Huawei effectively serve as an intelligence-gathering arm of the Chinese Communist Party,” Senator Cotton said after Trump’s emergency declaration.
“The administration is right to restrict the use of their products.”
So far, the US campaign to lobby other countries to turn their backs on Huawei has had mixed results.
Even Britain, one of Washington’s closest allies, is mired in debate over whether to follow the US lead or allow Huawei to develop the 5G networks.
On Tuesday, the chairman of the company, Liang Hua, visited London to insist that Huawei will “commit ourselves, to commit our equipment to meeting the no-spy, no back-door standards.”
The US State Department’s decision to greenlight the first big-ticket US military sale to the self-ruled democratic island in decades comes amid already strained ties between Washington and Beijing.
“The sale of weapons by the United States to Taiwan… seriously violates the one-China principle… grossly interferes in China’s internal affairs and undermines China’s sovereignty and security interests,” said foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang.
Geng said that China has already lodged formal complaints through diplomatic channels expressing “strong dissatisfaction and resolute opposition” to the move.
“China urges the US to… immediately cancel the planned arms sale and stop military relations with Taipei to avoid damaging Sino-US relations and harming peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait,” Geng said.
According to the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) the deal includes 108 M1A2T Abrams tanks, 250 Stinger portable anti-aircraft missiles and related equipment and support. 
Taiwan has been ruled separately from China since the end of a civil war in 1949, but Beijing considers it a part of its territory to be retaken — by force if necessary.
China has significantly stepped up diplomatic and military pressure on Taipei since the election in 2016 of President Tsai Ing-wen, whose Democratic Progressive Party refuses to acknowledge that the island is part of “One China”.
It has also staged military exercises near the island, and steadily reduced the already small number of nations that recognise Taiwan.
The United States switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to China in 1979 but has remained an important ally — and arms supplier — to Taipei. Laws passed that year by Congress required Washington to provide the island with means of self-defence.
But it has been wary of big-ticket military equipment sales to Taiwan in recent years, fearful of stoking anger in Beijing.
After shaking hands with Kim over the line that marks where their two countries and their allies fought each other to a standstill in the 1950-53 Korean War, Trump walked for several steps into North Korean territory, before another handshake.
The two men then walked into Seoul’s territory together — pausing on the line for photographers — where they were joined by South Korean President Moon Jae-in.
“It’s a great day for the world and it’s an honour for me to be here,” Trump said. “A lot of great things are happening.”
The impromptu meeting in the DMZ — which came after Trump issued an invitation on Twitter on Saturday — comes with negotiations between Pyongyang and Washington over the North’s nuclear arsenal at a deadlock.
The two would “just shake hands quickly and say hello because we haven’t seen each other since Vietnam”, Trump said earlier.
Their first summit took place in a blaze of publicity in Singapore last year but produced a vaguely-worded pledge about denuclearisation, and a second meeting in Vietnam in February intended to put flesh on those bones broke up without agreement.
Contact between the two sides has since been minimal — with Pyongyang issuing frequent criticisms of the US position — but the two leaders have exchanged a series of letters and Trump turned to Twitter on Saturday to issue his offer.
“If Chairman Kim of North Korea sees this, I would meet him at the Border/DMZ just to shake his hand and say Hello(?)!,” he wrote from from Osaka in Japan, where he was attending a G20 summit before flying to Seoul.
In an unusually fast and public response, within hours of Trump’s tweet the North’s official KCNA news agency quoted Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son Hui as saying the offer was “a very interesting suggestion”.
Trump’s entry onto North Korean soil is a dramatic re-enactment of the extraordinary scene last year when the young leader invited South Korean President Moon Jae-in to walk over the Military Demarcation Line that divides the Koreas.
Moon — who seized on last year’s Winter Olympics to broker the process between Pyongyang and Washington, after tensions soared in 2017 amid missile and nuclear tests and mutual insults — will be going to the DMZ with Trump.
“The leaders of the US and the North will have a handshake for peace at Panmunjom, the symbol of division, for the first time,” Moon said, referring to the “truce village” in the DMZ.
‘Barren no-man’s land’ 
But analysts were divided over the headline-grabbing meeting’s potential impact on the underlying issues.
The four-kilometre-wide (2.5 miles) DMZ, running for 250 kilometres, is where the front line lay when the Korean War ended with a ceasefire rather than a peace treaty, and is described as the world’s last Cold War frontier.
John Delury of Yonsei University in Seoul said an encounter in the “barren no man’s land that embodies the unhealed wound of post-WWII division, the Korean War, and 70 years of animosity” would help improve ties.
“It’s not just about denuclearisation and it’s not all about a deal — important as those are,” he said. “If Trump and Kim meet & can announce some kind of interim agreement, that’s great. If they meet and don’t, that’s ok too. If in the end they don’t meet, it’s good that Trump offered to.”
But Joshua Pollack of the Middlebury Institute of International Studies cast doubt on what it could achieve.
The Hanoi meeting foundered amid disagreements on what the North — which has carried out six nuclear tests and developed missiles capable of reaching the entire US mainland — would be willing to give up in exchange for relief from sanctions that have crippled its economy.
“An agenda-free, made-for-TV encounter won’t undo a year of inflated expectations and disappointment,” said Pollack.
What was needed, he added, was “something more than a one-page letter and another handshake”.
The DMZ has been a regular stop for US presidents visiting the South, a security ally — although Trump’s helicopter was forced to turn back by fog in 2017 — while Panmunjom saw the first two summits between Moon and Kim last year.






After more than 18 months of unfruitful negotiations with the Nigerian government to reduce its high visa fee, the United States Embassy yesterday invoked its reciprocity rule.
“The total cost for a U.S. citizen to obtain a visa to Nigeria is currently higher than the total cost for a Nigerian to obtain a comparable visa to the United States. The new reciprocity fee for Nigerian citizens is meant to eliminate that cost difference,” says a statement by the Public Affairs Section (PAS) U.S. Consulate General in Lagos.
The new fee for all approved applications for non-immigrant visas in categories: B, F, H1B, I, L, and R will begin tomorrow.
The statement adds: “The reciprocity fee will be charged in addition to the non-immigrant visa application fee, also known as the MRV fee, which all applicants pay at the time of application. Nigerian citizens whose applications for a non-immigrant visa are denied will not be charged the new reciprocity fee. Both reciprocity and MRV fees are non-refundable, and their amounts vary based on visa classification.”
Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom have some of the most expensive visa regime, with applicants being subjected to multiple scrutiny and bureaucratic tapes by consular and security agencies.
United States citizens pay as much as $270 for a single-entry visa. They are also charged $160 for consular services, another $100 for ‘administration’ and $10 for ‘processing.’
As at May 2018, Mr. Sunday James, the deputy comptroller in charge of information management at the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), was quoted by local media as saying he was “not aware that Nigeria’s visa was among the most expensive.”
The House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora had, in December 2017, queried the NIS for demanding exorbitant amounts for visas.
The reciprocity rule entails that Nigerian applicants will now pay an application fee of $160 and another $110 for visa issuance if successful. They also have a grace period of five days to pay the additional issuance fee.
Further inquiry by The Guardian revealed that Nigerian citizens are not the only ones required to pay a reciprocity fee. The Department of State reviews the amounts foreign governments charge U.S. citizens on a regular basis and adjusts its fee schedules accordingly. It also requires citizens of countries that charge higher to pay a non-immigrant visa issuance fee or reciprocity fee after their application is approved.
Following the almost two years of failed negotiations with the Federal Government, through the Foreign Affairs and Interior ministries, the U.S. Department of State took the decision in accordance with Section 281 of its Immigration and Nationality Act (INA).
The section provides that the “Department of State establish visa fee corresponding to the total of all visa, entry, residence, or other similar fee, taxes, or charges assessed or levied against nationals of the United States.”
The new fee regime “applies to all Nigerian citizens, regardless of where in the world they are applying for a non-immigrant visa to the United States.”
Cautious in their response to questions by The Guardian, spokespersons in the Foreign and Internal Affairs ministries neither validated nor denied the matter.
The Director of Press at the Ministry of interior Mohammed Manga would not confirm if he was aware of the months of negotiation by the U.S. but directed inquiries to Mr. Sunday James.
The deputy comptroller initially answered the telephone call with interest but deflected when The Guardian sought to make an inquiry.
At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, efforts to get Mr. Kimiebi Ebienfa of the NIS media department were unsuccessful as his phone rang out. But later in the night he said through a text message that there was no statement from the ministry for now.
Meanwhile, some Nigerians have expressed mixed feelings following President Donald Trump’s announcement of “seriously” considering ending birthright citizenship for children born in America.
Birthright citizenship in the U.S. is acquired by virtue of the circumstances of birth, contrasting with citizenship acquired in other ways, for example by naturalisation.
Mrs. Oyin John, a fashion designer, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Abuja, said though she does not like the announcement, Trump has the right to take whatever decision he “feels is best for his country.”
John, who had her first baby in the U.S. said the “top notch” health services of hospitals in the U.S. informed her preference to be delivered of her children there.
She said if Trump eventually succeeds, it could be a good omen for the Nigerian government to sit up and improve its healthcare system.
But Mrs. Biola Odebode, an Abuja-based businesswoman said it might not be easy for Trump to end birthright citizenship because the U.S. has been able to take advantage of birth tourism to generate huge revenue.
She also blamed Nigerians for misusing the opportunities offered by medical tourism.
Mr. Chimeruo Obioha, a mariner, said Trump’s announcement did not come to him as a surprise because the U.S. president needs to protect his country.
“Regardless of the general poor health services across the country, I still believe that there are top-notch hospitals within Nigeria that can provide services rendered in hospitals abroad. Anyone who can spend as much as $8,000 to $,12,000 to go abroad to be delivered of a child can afford such hospitals in Nigeria,” Obioha added.






Shanahan “has decided not to go forward with his confirmation process so that he can devote more time to his family,” Trump tweeted after Shanahan faced questions over his past personal life and an allegation of domestic violence.
Trump said the army secretary, Mark Esper, will come in as acting secretary of defense.
There hasn’t been a full secretary of defense since the resignation of James Mattis in December last year after splits in the administration over Trump’s sudden decision to remove US troops from Syria.
The new upheaval in what is one of the biggest posts in the US government comes amid rising tensions in the Middle East, where the United States has accused Iran of attacking oil tankers in the strategic Gulf of Oman.
The Pentagon has announced another 1,000 troops are to be sent to the region, while US officials say they would launch a war if necessary to stop Iran from pursuing nuclear weapons — something Tehran insists it is not doing.
Shanahan’s nomination has been bogged down in the congressional confirmation process. The last straw appears to have been revelations during an FBI background check of a violent altercation with his then wife in 2010.
In a statement late Monday, Shanahan said it was “painful” to see his past “dredged up and painted in an incomplete and therefore misleading way as a result of this nomination process.”
“I never laid a hand on my then-wife and cooperated fully in a thorough law enforcement investigation that resulted in her being charged with assault against me — charges which I had dropped in the interest of my family,” he said, according to USA Today.
Esper is a former army officer who served in the US-led 1990-1991 Gulf war to end Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait, then became a senior executive at weapons and aerospace company Raytheon. Shanahan had a long career at Boeing’s civil and military divisions before joining the Pentagon.






London has been scrambling to stem the damage caused by the release of confidential telegrams from envoy Kim Darroch, which described Trump as “inept” and his White House as “uniquely dysfunctional.”
In a series of tweets, Trump assailed the British premier, welcoming her impending departure from office, and saying he would have no further contact with the ambassador.
“I have been very critical about the way the U.K. and Prime Minister Theresa May handled Brexit,” Trump wrote. “What a mess she and her representatives have created.” 
“I told her how it should be done, but she decided to go another way.”
“The good news for the wonderful United Kingdom is that they will soon have a new Prime Minister,” Trump wrote.
Regarding the envoy Darroch, Trump declared: “We will no longer deal with him.”
“I do not know the Ambassador, but he is not liked or well thought of within the U.S,” the president said.
The British prime minister’s office called the leak “unacceptable” but also defended the work of ambassadors in providing “honest, unvarnished assessments of politics in their country.”
“The prime minister has full faith in her ambassador to Washington,” a Downing Street spokesperson said.
The release of the cables came just a month after a state visit by Trump that included a 41-gun salute welcome at Buckingham Palace and a banquet dinner with the queen.
“While I thoroughly enjoyed the magnificent State Visit last month, it was the Queen who I was most impressed with!” Trump tweeted.






In an interview to be aired Tuesday on ABC News, Biden said he had failed to anticipate how those activities would be become fodder for critics of his father, former vice president Joe Biden, as he runs for the Democratic presidential nomination.
"Did I make a mistake? Maybe in the grand scheme of things," Biden said in the interview, excerpts of which were released ahead of its airing Tuesday evening before another Democratic presidential debate.
"But did I make a mistake based on some ethical lapse? Absolutely not," Biden, 49, insisted.
"I don’t think there’s a lot of things that would have happened in my life if my last name wasn’t Biden," Biden said.
Biden held a lucrative position on the board of a Ukrainian energy company, Burisma, while his father was vice president under Barack Obama and helped engineer the ouster of that country's prosecutor general on grounds he was weak on corruption.
A lawyer for Biden Jr. said Sunday that Biden is leaving his position on the board of a Chinese private equity company.
Hunter Biden has kept out of public view since the impeachment scandal surrounding President Donald Trump's dealings with Ukraine erupted last month.
Trump has disparaged Biden Jr. and taunted him with tweets like this one last week: "WHERE'S HUNTER?"
Trump has made repeatedly made unsubstantiated charges that Biden Sr. intervened in Ukraine to protect his son. And news that Trump's request in a July 25 phone call with the president of Ukraine that he probes the Bidens has triggered the fast-moving impeachment investigation that is now consuming the Trump administration.
Biden Jr. said in the interview that the administration has spread a "ridiculous conspiracy theory" about his work in Ukraine.
"I gave a hook to some very unethical people to act in illegal ways to try to do some harm to my father," Biden said.
"That’s where I made the mistake. So I take full responsibility for that. Did I do anything improper? No, not in any way. Not in any way whatsoever," he added.
The Pentagon announced it was sending 200 troops with Patriot missiles to bolster Saudi Arabia’s defenses following the strikes this month that knocked out half of the Kingdom’s oil production.
After a week of diplomacy at the United Nations where European leaders unsuccessfully tried to arrange a US-Iran meeting, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani demanded that Washington back up its accusations that Iran was behind the attacks.
“Those who make the allegations must provide the needed proof. What is your evidence?” he told reporters.
Tensions between Iran and the United States have soared since President Donald Trump pulled out of a 2015 international deal that was meant to lift sanctions in exchange for a commitment from Tehran that it would cease trying to develop nuclear weapons.
The United States, France, Germany, Britain and Saudi Arabia have all, to varying degrees, blamed Iran for the brazen September 14 air strikes on the kingdom’s Abqaiq plant and Khurais oil field.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the United States shared evidence on the attacks with other countries during the UN General Assembly.
“I think now it has struck them how clear it is that the Islamic Republic of Iran is not prepared to do the right thing and behave like a normal nation,” Pompeo told reporters Thursday.
Iran “used their usual method of trying to obscure this through use of a proxy force. They had to know it was the case that the world would rally against them, and yet they still chose to do it,” he added.
Tehran has blasted the allegations as “ridiculous.” It denies responsibility, and the attacks have been claimed by Yemen’s Iranian-backed Huthi rebels.
“If you do have any evidence or documentation please do make them available to me,” Rouhani said.
He said that Western powers should instead stop arming Saudi Arabia in its offensive in Yemen, which the United Nations calls the world’s biggest humanitarian crisis.
‘Vile and cowardly regime’ 
A senior Saudi official, in an address to the United Nations General Assembly, urged a united front against Iran.
“It is a vile and cowardly regime, which hides behind its affiliated militias, pushing them to claim responsibility,” said Adel al-Jubeir, the minister of state for foreign affairs.
“This regime is only checked by a firm and unified stand and the application of maximum and sustained pressure until it desists from its terrorist behavior,” he said.
The US president reimposed economic sanctions and in May his administration said it would unilaterally force all countries to stop buying Iran’s oil, one of Tehran’s main sources of wealth.
Tehran soon afterward shot down an unmanned US drone. At the very last minute, Trump stepped back from striking Iran in June as the risk of all-out war in the Middle East seemed all too real.
In its latest move to ratchet up pressure, the United States banned senior Iranian regime figures and their families from entering the United States.
It came 24 hours after Washington announced it would punish Chinese companies that bought Iranian oil, on the last official day of Trump’s participation at the UN General Assembly.
The US Defense Department said the troop deployment would involve one battery of surface-to-air missiles, along with four Sentinel radars used for air and missile defense systems.
And the UN’s nuclear watchdog confirmed Thursday that Iran has started using advanced models of centrifuges to enrich uranium, in a new breach of the agreement with world powers.
No meeting at UN 
Speculation had been rife that Trump might meet Rouhani on the sidelines of the UN summit but the US leader returned to Washington without a rendezvous taking place.
Rouhani said Thursday that Iran would be willing to hold talks with the United States if Trump lifted sanctions and ended his policy of “maximum pressure” on Tehran.
“If we reach a time when these preconditions are taken off the table, of course the possibility exists to talk with America,” he said at the news conference.
French President Emmanuel Macron had shuttled between his US and Iranian counterparts over two days at the UN, trying to arrange an encounter.
“There was a narrow path. That path has shrunk, but it’s still there,” a French diplomat said.






“The current practice of US politicians underestimates our strength,” Ren said, according to transcripts from state-run media.
“Huawei’s 5G will absolutely not be affected. In terms of 5G technologies, others won’t be able to catch up with Huawei in two or three years,” he said.
Last week, Trump declared a “national emergency” empowering him to blacklist companies seen as “an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States” — a move analysts said was clearly aimed at Huawei.
At the same time, the US Commerce Department announced an effective ban on American companies selling or transferring US technology to Huawei.
 ‘Can’t be isolated’ 
US internet giant Google, whose Android mobile operating system powers most of the world’s smartphones, said this week it was beginning to cut ties with Huawei in light of the ban.
The move could have dramatic implications for Huawei smartphone users, as the telecoms giant will no longer have access to Google’s proprietary services — which include the Gmail and Google Maps apps — a source close to the matter told AFP.
But the Commerce Department on Monday issued a 90-day reprieve on the ban on the transfer of technology by allowing temporary licences.
“The US 90-day temporary licence does not have much impact on us, we are ready,” Ren said.
Huawei has sought to ease customers’ concerns over the Google announcement.
Ren said Huawei and Google are discussing how to respond to the ban, calling the US firm a “highly responsible company”.
A company spokesman in Australia said the US actions “will not impact consumers” with a Huawei tablet or smartphone in the country, or those planning to buy a device in the future.
As for Huawei’s access to key components, Ren said half of chips used in the company’s equipment come from the United States and the other half it makes itself.
“We cannot be isolated from the world,” Ren said.
“We can also make the same chips as the US chips, but it doesn’t mean we won’t buy them,” he said.
He denied reports that German chipmaker Infineon has halted shipments to Huawei.
But analysts say the ban threatens the company’s very survival as it heavily relies on US components.
“If the ban continues, Huawei will be damaged for sure, particularly in smartphones but also in the datacenter and networking markets,” said Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy.
 Ask Trump, not me 
The Huawei confrontation has been building for years, as the company has raced to a huge advantage over rivals in next-generation 5G mobile technology.
US intelligence believes Huawei is backed by the Chinese military and that its equipment could provide Beijing’s intelligence services with a backdoor into the communications networks of rival countries.
For that reason, Washington has pushed its closest allies to reject Huawei technology, a significant challenge given the few alternatives for 5G.
While Australia has also banned Huawei from its 5G plans, the US has struggled to sway some countries, with Britain having reportedly approved a limited role for the Chinese company to help build a 5G network in the country.
Canada has been dragged into the battle. Its arrest of Ren’s daughter, Huawei chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou, in December on a US extradition bid linked to Iran sanctions violations was followed by the arrest in China of two Canadians, including a former diplomat.
“We sacrificed ourselves and families because we have a goal. In order to stand on the world’s summit, for this goal, there will be conflicts with the US sooner or later,” Ren said.
The battle over Huawei has added to tensions in a trade war that has escalated between the world’s top two economies, with both sides exchanging steep increases in tariffs as negotiations have faltered.
China’s envoy to the European Union, Zhang Ming, called the move against Huawei “wrong behaviour”, adding “there will be a necessary response”.
Asked how long Huawei may face difficult times, Ren said: “You may need to ask Trump about this question, not me.”
Chief Justice John Roberts tipped the balance by siding with the court’s liberal minority to block the Trump administration bid for the question to be added to its 2020 census.
The 5-4 ruling said the government’s arguments were “contrived.” However, the decision left open the possibility that the Trump administration could still seek to make new justifications.
Trump, who is in Japan for the G20 summit, said on Twitter that not having the citizenship question was “totally ridiculous.”
He said government lawyers would now try to have the 2020 census delayed — “no matter how long” — in order to give the Supreme Court “additional information” and get a new decision.
In a separate ruling, the top court’s conservative majority refused to rule against electoral redistricting practices, known as gerrymandering, that tend to favor the party in power.
– Counting immigrants, money –
Held only once every 10 years, the census is instrumental in apportioning some $675 billion in federal funding to states and cities, and also determines the number of seats allocated to each state in the House of Representatives.
Despite Trump’s frequent claim that the census is “meaningless” without asking if respondents are US citizens, that question has not appeared on the survey since 1950.
Critics, backed by the Census Bureau’s experts, said a citizenship question would drive many immigrants to avoid answering out of fear of being caught up in Trump’s hardline crackdown on illegal immigration — rendering them invisible.
The bureau’s experts said that 1.6 to 6.5 million immigrants, notably Hispanics, would avoid the census or lie to census takers.
The American Civil Liberties Union hailed the decision as “a victory for immigrants and communities of color across America.”
Opposition was led by some 20 states including Democratic-led California and New York, as well as major cities like Chicago and San Francisco, which filed legal actions against inclusion of the question.
When lower courts ruled against the question, the Trump administration asked the nation’s highest court to intervene.
In arguments before the justices in April, Solicitor General Noel Francisco said a citizenship question “has been asked as part of the census in one form or another for nearly 200 years.”
Francisco was cut short by Justice Sonia Sotomayor who noted that the Trump administration was actually seeking to reinstate something that had been dropped for more than half a century.
“There’s no doubt that people will respond less because of the census. That’s been proven in study after study,” she said.
– Gerrymandering –
In the second case decided Thursday, the court’s conservative majority turned down challenges to electoral maps drawn up by two states.
A North Carolina map had been criticized as too favorable to Republicans and a Maryland map as benefiting Democrats.
In another five to four decision, the justices ruled that the courts had no role to play under the constitution in what the framers understood to be a political matter.
“We conclude that partisan gerrymandering claims present political questions beyond the reach of the federal courts,” Roberts wrote, in the majority opinion.
“There are no legal standards discernible in the Constitution for making such judgments, let alone limited and precise standards that are clear, manageable, and politically neutral.”
In the United States, electoral maps are redrawn in each state every 10 years when a new census is taken. The party in power often profits by concentrating opposition voters in certain districts in order to diminish their influence elsewhere.
The practice is known as “gerrymandering,” a word that compounds the name of an 18th century governor, Elbridge Gerry, with salamander. Gerry had devised a district in his state so torturously that it took the shape of the lizard-like amphibian.
Facilitating the practice is the fact that in most states voters are encouraged to register as “Democrat,” “Republican” or “independent,” designations that enable them to take part in their party’s primaries.
Former California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger called on the court to “terminate gerrymandering,” telling the protesters that the villain was not parties but politicians who “keep drawing the district lines to keep their jobs rather than representing the people.”






Washington announced last week it had taken possession of the North Korean-registered bulk carrier M/V Wise Honest — a year after it was detained in Indonesia — citing sanctions-violating activities.
The seizure came amid heightened tensions after Pyongyang conducted weapons drills involving short-range missiles in recent weeks, and with nuclear talks deadlocked since the collapse of the Hanoi summit between US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un earlier this year.
In a letter sent Friday to Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, Kim Song — Pyongyang’s permanent representative at the UN — said the incident was “an unlawful and outrageous act”, according to North Korea’s state news agency KCNA.
“This act of dispossession has clearly indicated that the United States is indeed a gangster country that does not care at all about international laws,” the letter said.
The North Korean representative asked Guterres to “take urgent measures as a way of contributing to the stability of the Korean peninsula and proving the impartiality of the UN”.
Earlier this week, Pyongyang had slammed the seizure as an “outright denial” of the spirit of a statement signed by Kim and Trump at their first summit in Singapore last year.
North Korea is sanctioned under multiple UN Security Council resolutions for its nuclear and missile programmes, and lifting of some of the measures was a key demand from Pyongyang at the second Trump-Kim summit in February that ultimately broke down without a deal.
The tariffs were imposed on Friday after two days of talks to resolve the US-China trade battle ended with no deal, however, negotiations will continue.
Trump also addressed Chinese President Xi Jinping and warned that companies would leave China if a trade deal was not reached.
“I say openly to President Xi & all of my many friends in China that China will be hurt very badly if you don’t make a deal because companies will be forced to leave China for other countries.”
“Too expensive to buy in China. You had a great deal, almost completed, & you backed out!” Trump tweeted.
In Trump’s view, “Tariffed companies will be leaving China for Vietnam and other such countries in Asia. That’s why China wants to make a deal so badly! … There will be nobody left in China to do business with. Very bad for China, very good for USA!
“But China has taken so the advantage of the U.S. for so many years, that they are way ahead (Our Presidents did not do the job).”
Research shows that Americans will bear the brunt of the impact from the tariffs, as the levies are paid by importers and ultimately passed on at least partially to consumers.
Global markets remain on red alert over a trade war between the two superpowers that most observers warn could shatter global economic growth, and hurt demand for commodities like oil.
"These American tariffs seriously violate the consensus reached by the leaders of our two countries in Osaka," Beijing's commerce ministry said, referring to trade discussions in the Japanese city in June.
"The Chinese side is strongly dissatisfied and resolutely opposed to that. In accordance with relevant WTO rules, China will firmly safeguard its legitimate rights and interests," the ministry added in a statement published on its website.
The complaint has been lodged with the WTO body for dispute settlement, the ministry said.
Washington's latest levies on imports from China took effect on Sunday as it stepped up a high-pressure campaign aimed at compelling Beijing to sign a new trade deal.
The additional tariffs affected a portion of the $300 billion in goods from the Asian giant that so far had been spared.
Beijing has said it will retaliate by targeting $75 billion in US goods, beginning in part on September 1.
The trade dispute has rattled markets and hit growth across the globe, and trade negotiations between the two countries have been at an impasse for months.
US President Donald Trump and China's leader Xi Jinping had agreed to "fully engage" on trade when they met in Osaka during the G20 summit in Japan.
But at the recent G7 meeting in France, Trump spoke of new communications between US and Chinese negotiators -- giving financial markets a brief boost --  while China's foreign ministry said it was unaware of such contacts.
“There is willingness on the part of US government officials to establish dialogue and reach agreements and compromises,” President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador told a news conference.
He did not say what gave him reason to believe this, though he noted that his government had contacted both US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law and adviser.
Trump’s surprise announcement Thursday of new tariffs against a key US trading partner was widely criticized, including by US business groups, border-state politicians and some Republican lawmakers. It sent global markets slumping on Friday.
Lopez Obrador said a Mexican delegation led by Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard will meet Wednesday in Washington with Pompeo to discuss the matter.
‘Doing our job’
Trump said Thursday that tariffs starting at five percent and gradually increasing to 25 percent will be applied to all Mexican imports beginning June 10, unless Mexico does more to halt the flow of undocumented migrants.
“Mexico has taken advantage of the United States for decades,” Trump said in a tweet.
Lopez Obrador said Friday that his country was “doing our job” to stem the flow of undocumented migrants — many of them fleeing poverty and violence in Central America — and he warned Trump that new tariffs would be a lose-lose game.
From January to April, Mexican authorities detained 51,607 migrants, a 17 percent increase from the same period in 2018, according to official figures.
On Saturday, Lopez Obrador voiced confidence on the upcoming talks.
“The results are going to be good because there is an atmosphere that is favorable to dialogue both in this country and in the United States,” the Mexican president said, adding that he doubted the tariffs would ultimately take effect.
“It is in everyone’s interest to reach an agreement,” he said.
Hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants have been crossing into the US — more than 100,000 a month in recent months — causing temporary shelters to overflow and judges unable to keep up with asylum applications.
Trump, who has often demonized the migrants as criminals and gang members, has declared the situation an emergency.
The US tariffs would be devastating for Mexico, which sends 80 percent of its exports to the US.
Analysts said Trump’s shock move jeopardized the chances for ratifying a new trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, known as the USMCA. His announcement came the same day Trump began the process of ratifying the new pact.
“The move is seen as a further disruption for US manufacturing supply chains, adding to consumer costs, with the uncertainty undermining business investment,” chief economist Scott Brown of Raymond James said on the investment firm’s website.
It might also undercut chances for resolving the continuing US trade conflict with China, analysts said, by raising questions about whether US negotiators can be trusted.
In a tit-for-tat competition, the US and China have imposed billions of dollars in tariffs on goods imported from the other.
Beijing on Saturday increased tariffs on $60 billion worth of US goods, retaliating for Washington having raised duties on $200 billion in Chinese goods.
But trade with Mexico is, in some ways, more deeply intertwined with US jobs and manufacturing.
Many products, like cars, appliances and computers, are partially produced on one side of the border and then finished on the other.
California is leading the coalition, and its Attorney General (AG) Xavier Becerra was joined by his counterparts from the states of Maine, Oregon and Pennsylvania, as well as the District of Columbia, to challenge Trump’s policy to restrict immigrants’ access to legal status if they use food or medical benefits offered by the federal government.
The new policy, also known as the “Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Public Charge Rule,” is targeting working immigrants and their families by creating unnecessary new barriers to lawful admission to the U.S., Becerra said in the lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.
“The Rule discourages hardworking eligible immigrants and their families from accessing critical health, nutrition, and housing programs that supplement their modest wages and help them make ends meet,” he said.
He asserted the “cruel policy” would force working parents and families across the nation to forgo those basic necessities out of fear, which is “simply unacceptable”.
“The Rule will disproportionately block admission of non-white, non-European immigrants from Asia, Latin America, and Africa,” and create more obstacles for them in the path to U.S. citizenship, Becerra added.
California Governor Gavin Newsom also slammed the move by the Trump administration as demonizing immigrants and creating fear in immigrant families, “which is cruel and threatens our public health”.
“We’re standing up to the Trump administration in court to protect our economy, our families, and our most sacred values,” he said.
According to Becerra’s office, California is home to more than 10 million immigrants and half of all children in the state have at least one immigrant parent.
Two California counties joined an earlier lawsuit filed this week by 13 states, including the Washington state, to challenge Trump’s public charge rule set to take effect in October.
The error prompted a wave of hilarity online, with one Twitter critic asking if the president had made the mistake “on porpoise.”
Trump, who is an enthusiastic user of social media and has some 61 million Twitter followers, quickly corrected the original tweet. But his new version did not change another inaccurate reference, this time to the “Queen of England.”
Elizabeth II, who hosted Trump at a state dinner in London, is actually the Queen of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, of which England is only one part.
Pyongyang fired two short-range missiles Thursday following an earlier drill the previous Saturday — the first in 18 months.
The North had not launched any missiles since November 2017, shortly before once reclusive Kim embarked on diplomatic overtures.
“I don’t consider that a breach of trust at all. And, you know, at some point I may. But at this point no,” Trump said in an interview with Politico.
“These were short-range missiles and very standard stuff. Very standard.”
Twenty-four hours earlier, however, Trump showed his irritation and impatience on an issue where he hopes to succeed while all his predecessors — Republicans and Democrats — have failed.
“Nobody’s happy about it,” he told reporters, in reaction to the launches.
“We’ll see what happens,” Trump added. “I know they want to negotiate, they’re talking about negotiating. But I don’t think they are ready to negotiate.”
Will the US president at some point lose faith in Kim? He has met twice with the North Korean leader and claimed that the two have a special friendship and even “love.”
“I mean it’s possible that at some point I will, but right now not at all,” he told Politico.
 ‘Undiminished threat’ 
The first face-to-face historic meeting between the two men in June 2018 in Singapore produced only a vague statement about denuclearization, allowing both sides to make very different interpretations of it.
February’s second summit, in Hanoi, broke up without a deal after they failed to agree on what Pyongyang would be willing to give up in exchange for sanctions relief.
Since then, Kim has accused Washington of acting in “bad faith” and given it until the end of the year to change its approach.
North Korea’s Rodong Sinmun newspaper, the mouthpiece of the ruling party, devoted its entire front page and half of page two to the launch on Friday, with 16 pictures, the main one of Kim watching the launch from a camouflaged shelter.
Despite recent threats by the North to seek a new path, the nature and presentation of the two recent launches demonstrate that Pyongyang does not intend to walk away from talks any time soon, analysts say.
On Friday at the United Nations, 70 countries urged North Korea to scrap its nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles and related programs, decrying the “undiminished threat” posed to world peace.
Signatories included the United States and South Korea, as well as nations in Asia, Latin America, Africa and Europe.
Russia and China, supporters of Pyongyang, did not sign the document drafted by France.
According to a diplomatic source, about 15 countries asked to sign on to the request for North Korean disarmament after the new missile firings.
In a Saturday evening bombshell, Trump said that he had planned unprecedented, albeit separate, talks with the two sides Sunday in Camp David, the presidential retreat in Maryland, but that the Taliban’s persistent, grisly violence made them untrustworthy partners.
“Unbeknownst to almost everyone, the major Taliban leaders and, separately, the President of Afghanistan, were going to secretly meet with me at Camp David on Sunday,” Trump said in a tweet.
“Unfortunately, in order to build false leverage, they admitted to an attack in Kabul that killed one of our great great soldiers, and 11 other people. I immediately cancelled the meeting and called off peace negotiations.””What kind of people would kill so many in order to seemingly strengthen their bargaining position? They didn’t, they only made it worse!” Trump said.
A US soldier and another service member from Romania were killed in the bombing Thursday in Kabul — the latest major attack claimed by the Taliban even as they negotiated with a US envoy on the withdrawal of thousands of troops.
Trump would have met the Taliban at Camp David days before the 18th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, which triggered the US invasion that toppled the militants’ regime.
Washington was jolted by the announcement from Trump, who is fond of dramatic gestures but whose Twitter pronouncements have often come into question later.
“Why a lethal attack in Kabul on Thursday would be the reason for calling it off, considering the multiple recent Taliban attacks, is unclear,” said International Crisis Group’s Asia director Laurel Miller, who earlier served as the US special representative on Afghanistan.
Congressman Tom Malinowski, a Democrat who has been pressing for clarity on the US strategy in Afghanistan, called the idea of Taliban leaders at Camp David “weird.”
“But I’m glad the president called off this farce, and hope this good decision sticks,” Malinowski tweeted.
Deal unpopular in Kabul 
The announcement appears to abruptly end, at least for now, a painstaking diplomatic process led for nearly a year by Zalmay Khalilzad, the Afghan-born veteran US diplomat who held nine rounds of talks with the Taliban, usually in Qatar.
Khalilzad had earlier said that he had reached an agreement “in principle” with the Taliban.
According to parts of the draft deal made public, the Pentagon would pull about 5,000 of the roughly 13,000 US troops from five bases across Afghanistan next year.
The insurgents in turn would renounce Al-Qaeda, promise to fight the Islamic State group and stop jihadists using Afghanistan as a safe haven.
Afghanistan’s internationally recognized president, Ashraf Ghani, had been outspoken in his criticism of the emerging shape of the withdrawal agreement with the Taliban, who have refused to negotiate with his government.
“The Afghan government, in relation to the peace, appreciates the sincere efforts of its allies and is committed to working together with the United States and other allies to bring a lasting peace,” said a statement from Ghani’s office Sunday in response to Trump’s announcement.
Question mark on troops 
Trump’s announcement draws a fresh question mark on whether the United States will leave Afghanistan anytime soon.The decision comes weeks before Afghanistan is set to hold elections, an unwieldy exercise even in more stable times. The Afghan government said it “insists” the polls should go ahead in its statement Sunday.
Trump had been uncharacteristically reticent about Afghanistan in recent weeks, with all eyes on whether he would approve a final deal.Washington had hoped that a withdrawal of US troops would lead to peace negotiations between the Taliban and Kabul.
The Taliban have shown no signs of letting up on violence. Claiming responsibility for Thursday’s bombing in Kabul, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said that a suicide bomber had killed “foreign invaders.”
“Since the Taliban were flexing muscles on the ground, Americans also showed them they have a say politically,” analyst Ahmad Saeedi said — adding that he expects talks to resume again.
Trump has walked away from high-stakes talks before. In February, his aides pressed him not to accept a deal in Hanoi with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un another individual whom it would have long been unthinkable for a US president to meet.
But Trump soon made clear that he wanted to keep talking, calling Kim a friend, and arranged to meet him in June as the US leader visited the Korean peninsula.






“This will be a vital tool to screen out terrorists, public safety threats, and other dangerous individuals from gaining immigration benefits and setting foot on U.S. soil.”
The information will be used to vet about 14.7 million people annually.
Apart from social media identifiers, applicants are also to provide a detailed history of their travels.
The proposal to ask applicants for their social media information was first published in the Federal Register on March 29.
It was part of Donald Trump administration measures of curtailing incidences of terror attacks on US soil.
Such rigorous vetting will  apply to those “who have been determined to warrant additional scrutiny in connection with terrorism or other national security-related visa ineligibilities.”
“Such information is required to confirm identity or conduct more rigorous national security vetting,” a State Department official said at the time.






The Fed last week left benchmark US lending rates untouched but signalled it could ease them soon if the economic outlook deteriorates.
“Despite a Federal Reserve that doesn’t know what it is doing… we are on course to have one of the best Months of June in US history,” Trump tweeted, arguing that lower rates would have driven GDP growth rates as high as five percent.
“Now they stick, like a stubborn child when we need rate cuts & easing, to make up for what other countries are doing against us. Blew it!”
Last week, Fed Chairman Jerome Powell opened the door to a rate cut, saying persistent trade friction and slowing global growth, among other factors, had “strengthened” the case for looser monetary policy.
A single member of the Fed’s rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee pushed for an immediate cut to help preserve the economic expansion.
But Powell insisted on the central bank’s political independence, brushing aside news reports that Trump had considered demoting him. He has maintained that central bankers pay no attention to political pressure.
After raising interest rates nine times since 2015, gradually emerging from a decade of ultra-low rates in the aftermath of the Great Recession, policymakers have signalled a shift in course, with their next move likely to be a cut.
Meanwhile, the US economy has given off mixed signals: Surveys of consumer confidence and business activity are running hot, unemployment is still near 50-year lows, and consumer spending has been strong in recent months.
But growth in the second quarter could be about half the pace of the first, manufacturing has continued to weaken and business investment has declined.
And Trump’s threat to jack up tariffs on another $300 billion in Chinese goods threatens to send shockwaves through the global economy.
Trump will again find himself in the role of consoler-in-chief after a tragedy -- which he has struggled with in the past -- when he speaks at 10:00 am (1400 GMT).
Following the shootings, Trump said "hate has no place in our country," but he also blamed mental illness for the violence.
"These are really people that are very, very seriously mentally ill," he said, despite the fact that police have not confirmed this to be the case.
"We have to get it stopped. This has been going on for years... and years in our country," he said.
In Texas, 26 people were wounded, and 27 in Ohio, where the shooter was killed in roughly 30 seconds by police who were patrolling nearby.
 100-round drum magazine 
Dayton Police Chief Richard Biehl told a news conference that the quick police response was "crucial," preventing the shooter from entering a bar where "there would have been... catastrophic injury and loss of life."
Biehl said the shooter wore a mask and a bullet-proof vest and was armed with an assault rifle fitted with a 100-round drum magazine.
Police named the gunman as a 24-year-old white man called Connor Betts and said his sister was among those killed. She had gone with him to the scene of the shootings.
Six of the nine people shot dead were black, but Biehl said Betts' motive was still unclear.
In Texas, police said the suspect surrendered on a sidewalk near the scene of the massacre. He was described in media reports as a 21-year-old white man named Patrick Crusius.
He was believed to have posted online a manifesto denouncing a "Hispanic invasion" of Texas. El Paso, on the border with Mexico, is majority Latino.
 'Amplifying and condoning' hate 
Seven of the 20 people killed in the El Paso shooting were Mexican, the country's foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, said Sunday.
The manifesto posted shortly before the shooting also praises the killing of 51 Muslims at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand in March.
Police said the suspected shooter has been charged with murder offences that can carry the death penalty, and a federal official said investigators are treating the El Paso shooting as a case of domestic terrorism.
At the Walmart in El Paso, terrified shoppers cowered in aisles or ran out of the store as gunfire echoed.
Most of the victims were inside the store but some were also in the parking lot outside, police said.
"Shooting kids and women and men, to him it mostly mattered that they were Hispanic," said Manuel Sanchez, a resident of the city.
These were the 250th and 251st mass shootings this year in the US, according to the Gun Violence Archive, an NGO that defines a mass shooting as an incident in which at least four people are wounded or killed.
Despite a string of horrific mass shootings in the US, where gun culture is deep-rooted, efforts to strengthen firearms regulations remain divisive.
The latest two shootings ended a particularly tragic week for gun violence in America: three people died in a shooting at a food festival last Sunday in California, and two more Tuesday in a shooting in a Walmart in Mississippi.
On Twitter, Trump described the El Paso attack as "an act of cowardice."
But critics said the president's habit of speaking in derogatory terms about immigrants is pushing hatred of foreigners into the political mainstream and encouraging white supremacism.
"To pretend that his administration and the hateful rhetoric it spreads doesn't play a role in the kind of violence that we saw yesterday in El Paso is ignorant at best and irresponsible at worst," said the Southern Poverty Law Center, a major civil rights group.
It cited Trump actions like calling Mexican migrants rapists and drug dealers and doing nothing when a crowd at a Trump rally chanted "send her back" in reference to a Somali-born congresswoman.
The Republican mayor of El Paso, Dee Margo, seemed to discount any race element to the Texas shooting, telling Fox News the gunman was "deranged."
But multiple Democratic presidential hopefuls said Trump bears some of the blame for the violence.
"Our president isn't just failing to confront and disarm these domestic terrorists, he is amplifying and condoning their hate," Mayor Pete Buttigieg tweeted.
"Mr President: stop your racist, hateful and anti-immigrant rhetoric. Your language creates a climate which emboldens violent extremists," Senator Bernie Sanders wrote on Twitter.
With Frederiksen voicing her annoyance at Trump's cancellation, the war of words marks another spat between the US and one of its traditional allies since Trump came to power two years ago on an avowedly "America First" foreign policy platform.
Trump -- who made his name as a New York property mogul -- has characterized his idea of buying Greenland as essentially "a large real estate" deal, arguing it is a burden on Denmark as the autonomous territory's economy depends heavily on subsidies from Copenhagen.
Speaking to reporters at the White House, Trump said he was not the first US president to have raised the idea of buying the vast Arctic island which has housed an American airbase since even before it became formally a part of Denmark.
 'Not for sale' 
"Greenland was just an idea, just a thought. But I think when they say it was 'absurd' -- and it was said in a very nasty, very sarcastic way -- I said, 'We'll make it some other time,'" Trump said.
"We'll go to Denmark. I love Denmark. I've been to Denmark. And, frankly, we'll do it another time."
The idea of the US buying Greenland was initially dismissed as a joke by some, but its strategic location has grown at a time when both Russia and China are flexing their muscles.
Greenland was a Danish colony until 1953 when it became part of the Danish Realm, and it gained "autonomous territory" status in 1979.
Its 55,000 inhabitants -- of whom 17,000 reside in the capital Nuuk -- are more than 90 percent Inuit, an indigenous group from Central Asia.
The government of Greenland has insisted that the island is "not for sale" and Frederiksen told reporters on Wednesday that she fully endorsed that view.
"I am both annoyed and surprised that the US president has cancelled a state visit," said the prime minister who had been preparing to host Trump early next month.
But, she added, "Denmark and the US are not in crisis, the US is one of our closest allies" and the invitation to visit was still open.
Her Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod reaffirmed the strong relationship between the two nations, reporting that he'd had a "frank, friendly and constructive talk" with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
"US & Denmark are close friends and allies with a long history of active engagement across the globe. Agreed to stay in touch on the full range of issues of mutual interest," Kofod tweeted.
The State Department said that in this conversation Pompeo expressed appreciation for Denmark's contribution as a US ally.
He and his Danish counterpart also talked about "strengthening cooperation with the Kingdom of Denmark – including Greenland – in the Arctic," the department said.
 'Show more respect' 
The postponement of Trump's visit -- which was announced on Twitter -- has sparked strong reactions in Denmark.
"Reality transcends imagination... this man is unpredictable," said Morten Ostergaard of the Social Liberal Party, which is part of the ruling coalition.
"For no reason, Trump assumes that (an autonomous) part of our country is for sale. Then insultingly cancels visit that everybody was preparing for," tweeted Rasmus Jarlov, a member of the opposition Conservative Party.
"Are parts of the US for sale? Alaska? Please show more respect."
Nonetheless, the conservative newspaper Jyllands-Posten wrote that Trump's actions ultimately benefitted Denmark, highlighting Greenland's geopolitical value.
The territory is home to the US airbase Thule, crucial during the Cold War as the first line of monitoring against a potential Russian attack.
But the melting polar ice sheet is opening up potentially major shipping routes, and untapped reserves of oil, gas and minerals will become increasingly accessible, leading Russia and China to show mounting interest in the region.
As far back as 1867, the US State Department expressed interest in the island. And in 1946, President Harry S. Truman offered $100 million in gold, or parts of Alaska, in exchange for Greenland.
As a former State Department diplomat testified behind closed doors in Congress on his role in the Ukraine scandal, Trump doubled down by calling for Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky and Chinese leader Xi Jinping to go after Biden, who leads the race for the Democratic presidential nomination next year.
"I would say that President Zelensky if it were me, I would recommend that they start an investigation into the Bidens," Trump told reporters outside the White House.
"Likewise, China should start an investigation into the Bidens, because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with Ukraine."
Asked if he would request Xi do the same, Trump replied, "It's certainly something we can start thinking about."
Adam Schiff, the Democrat leading the impeachment probe in the House of Representatives, said Trump was acting "with impunity" in the face of the law.
"Once again we have a president of the United States suggesting, urging a foreign country to interfere in our presidential elections," Schiff said.
 Biden rejects allegations 
Trump alleges that Biden, as vice president in 2014, tried to block a Ukraine corruption probe into his son Hunter's business partner, a Ukraine gas tycoon, using US aid as leverage.
He also alleged Hunter used his stature to raise $1.5 billion in 2013 from China for a new investment vehicle in Beijing.
He made "millions" off these investments, Trump alleges.
The record in Ukraine, however, shows that there was no corruption probe of Hunter Biden's partner to be blocked and that the United States and allies all viewed Kiev's since-removed corruption prosecutor at the time as himself deeply compromised.
In China, according to multiple media reports, a business associate of Hunter Biden obtained an investment license that did not include Biden's name, and only raised several million dollars.
Hunter Biden put up $420,000 for a minority interest, and has not received any compensation or return on it, his lawyer told the Washington Post.
Joe Biden's campaign called Trump's comments already-debunked "conspiracy theories" and accused him of "a grotesque choice of lies over truth and self over the country."
"Mr. President, you cannot extort foreign governments to help you win re-election. It's an abuse of power. It violates your oath of office. And it jeopardizes our national security," Biden tweeted separately.
 Ex-Ukraine envoy questioned 
In Congress, former US special envoy to Ukraine Kurt Volker was interviewed by House lawyers for more than eight hours on his role in the efforts by Trump and the president's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani to pressure Ukraine to investigate the Bidens.
Text messages released by House Democrats afterward showed Volker telling top Zelensky aide Andrey Yermak that the Ukrainian president should open an investigation sought by Trump in return for a visit to Washington.
"We have ample evidence now that there was a requirement that President Zelensky investigate the 2016 election, and the Bidens, if he wanted to get a meeting," with Trump, said Democrat Eric Swalwell.
Meanwhile, Republicans who sat in on the interview said Volker did not support charges that Trump withheld hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid from Ukraine to force Zelensky to open an investigation, as was alleged in a whistleblower complaint made public last week.
"It is crystal clear... that any allegation that President Trump was trying to get President Zelensky to manufacture dirt on the Bidens is just not true," said Representative Lee Zeldin, before Volker's testimony ended.
Democrats vowed to push through with the impeachment investigation, having subpoenaed documents from Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Giuliani, and threatened to subpoena the White House.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected a Republican call to halt the investigation on the grounds that a full House resolution on an impeachment inquiry had not been voted on.
"There is no requirement under the Constitution, under House Rules, or House precedent that the whole House vote before proceeding with an impeachment inquiry," she said.
The investigator who met with George Papadopoulos at a London bar in September 2016 — two months before the election that brought Trump to the office — was posing as a research assistant, the Times said, citing unnamed people familiar with the operation.
The effort ultimately “yielded no fruitful information,” the newspaper reported, but the revelation may provide further ammunition to Trump, who has denounced what he has termed “spying” on his presidential campaign.
Attorney General William Barr echoed that characterization in testimony to Congress, saying that he will open an inquiry into “spying” against Trump by the FBI at the origins of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Russian interference in the 2016 election.
The 22-month investigation — which Trump repeatedly dismissed as a “witch hunt” — led to charges against 34 individuals, including Papadopoulos, and three companies.
Papadopoulos pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and pledged to cooperate, eventually serving 12 days in prison.
United States President Donald Trump today praised a Nigerian artist, Oyedele Adedokun Isaac (doks_art) for drawing a portrait of him.
The young artist drew a ballpoint portrait of Trump and took to his Twitter page on Sunday to tweet at the US president:
“This is my second portrait of President Trump. This time, I really want him to see it,” he tweeted.
Oyedele revealed that the 24×21 inches portrait took him about 70 hours to finish.
The tweet caught the attention of Trump who responded in praise of the artwork and also encouraged him not to give up:
“Not only did I see it @Doks_Art, I think it is fantastic. You are a wonderful artist, never give up your dream!’
Not only did I see it @Doks_Art, I think it is fantastic. You are a wonderful artist, never give up your dream! https://t.co/LVVCUJz5CW
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 2, 2019

In the words of Margaret Thatcher, “being democratic is not enough, a majority cannot turn what is wrong into right. In order to be considered truly free, countries must also have a deep love of liberty and an abiding respect for the rule of law.”
If there’s one thing for which the current President Mohammed Buhari’s administration has been most accused of, it is the serial violation of Court orders, particularly when not in consonant with the policies of the administration, which has led many to term the President’s anti-corruption war, highly selective. The President of the United States, Donald Trump, may be crude in his approach to governance, but in spite of how strong the convictions of his administration might be, his policies are often subjected to criticism by Congress and ultimate sanction by the judiciary.
It is sad to note, that our judiciary, which had once occupied a place of reverence and dignity has in recent years, been caught in the mudsling of the dirty politics as practiced by most of our elected office holders. The judiciary to which the common man looks for hope, has now taken the dock. At the throes of military dictatorship in the history of Nigeria, we were blessed with courageous members of the bar and bench alike, whose sacrifice and steadfastness in the struggle for the preservation of the rule of law remains a point of reference to this day. The likes of Late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, Afe Babalola, Femi Falana, Justice Nicki Tobi, Kayode Eso, Chukwudi Oputa are names that will forever be etched in marbles of our history, for they were the heroes of the common man.
While we are quick to criticize our leaders, we often fail to consider the effect of how our everyday violation of simple traffic rules could lead to congestion on our roads and the ultimate loss of manpower, reduce productivity output, and ultimate earnings to the government, occasion poor service delivery and ultimately deter investors etc. While we are quick to call out the Police for acts of extortion, we fail to see how offering bribes to compromise a law enforcement officer in the course of his duties could ultimately lead to a weak security institution and expose the nation to insecurity. We all have a role to play in the development of the nation, and it begins by observing rules put in place for our overall benefit. The law is a tool that if well harnessed, can lead to social and institutional development. Members of the bar as primary custodians, are ministers of the temple of justice, and represent the voice of the common man on the street, so preach we all must until ours is a nation ruled by law.
* Mr. Efeturi, a member of the Editorial Board is The Guardian’s Legal Adviser.






At the same time, Beijing’s diplomatic relations with Ottawa further soured as China formally arrested two Canadians on suspicion of snatching state secrets in a case seen as retaliation over Canada’s arrest of a Huawei executive on a US extradition request.
The spat over Huawei adds to the uncertainty over efforts to revive a deal that would end a bruising US-China trade war after the two sides exchanged fire with tariff hikes in recent days.
The Chinese commerce ministry said Thursday it had no information on a US plan to come to Beijing to continue talks, after US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said he would likely visit China in the near future.
“The US’s bullying and maximum pressure tactics have caused the China-US economic and trade talks to suffer a serious setback,” ministry spokesman Gao Feng told a weekly press briefing.
Taoran Notes, a social media account with apparent state backing that has followed the trade talks closely, said it did not see any “negotiating sincerity” on the US side in a post late Thursday that was also carried by state media outlets.
“If there are no new substantive actions from the US, then there’s no point in coming, and no point in talking,” it said.
“This being the case, it is better to stop the negotiations completely,” said the comment, republished by official news agency Xinhua.
Trump stepped up the US battle against Huawei on Wednesday when he signed an executive order prohibiting the purchase or use of equipment from companies that pose “an unacceptable risk to the national security of the United States” or the safety of the American people.
While the White House insisted that no particular country or company was targeted, Huawei is likely to be hit by the move amid concerns that its equipment could be used by Chinese intelligence services.
The US Commerce Department followed up with a more direct hit on the tech giant, adding it to a blacklist that will make it much harder for the firm to use crucial US components in its array of phones, telecom gear, databases and other electronics.
“We urge the US to stop its incorrect actions… to avoid doing additional harm to China-US economic and trade relations,” Gao said.
“China has said many times national security issues should not be abused.”
 ‘RIP’ Huawei 
The US Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) said it would add Huawei and its affiliates to its “entity list” over alleged Iran sanctions violations.
The listing requires US firms to get a license from BIS for the sale or transfer of American technology to a company or person on the list.
“A license may be denied if the sale or transfer would harm US national security or foreign policy interests,” a Commerce Department statement said.
“This will prevent American technology from being used by foreign-owned entities in ways that potentially undermine US national security or foreign policy interests,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said.
And US Senator Tom Cotton, from Trump’s Republican Party, tweeted: “@Huawei 5G, RIP. Thanks for playing.”
American officials have been trying to persuade allies not to allow China a role in building next-generation 5G mobile networks, warning that doing so would result in restrictions on sharing of information with the United States.
US government agencies are already banned from buying equipment from Huawei, a rapidly expanding leader in the 5G technology.
Huawei said “unreasonable restrictions” will infringe upon its rights and raise serious legal issues.
“Restricting Huawei from doing business in the US will not make the US more secure or stronger; instead, this will only serve to limit the US to inferior yet more expensive alternatives,” the firm said in a statement.
 Detained Canadians 
Canada has also been dragged into the spat after arresting Huawei’s chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou in December on a US extradition warrant related to Iran sanctions violations.
Shortly after, former Canadian diplomat Michael Kovrig and a businessman, Michael Spavor, were detained on national security grounds.
The Chinese foreign ministry said Thursday the two Canadians have now been formally arrested.
Kovrig is “suspected of collecting state secrets and intelligence” while Spavor is suspected of “stealing and illegally offering state secrets” abroad.
“Canada strongly condemns their arbitrary arrest as we condemned their arbitrary detention on Dec. 10,” the Canadian foreign ministry said in a statement to Canadian newspaper The Globe and Mail.
The US portrayal of Huawei as a national security danger dovetails with Washington’s wider complaint that Chinese companies are unfairly protected by Beijing, making fair trade impossible.
Gao, the Chinese commerce ministry spokesman, said that to reach a trade deal all tariffs must be scrapped, demands for Chinese purchases of US goods must be realistic and the pact must be “balanced”.
“The escalation of China-US trade frictions will have a definite impact on the economies of the two countries and the world economy,” he said.
“As far as the Chinese economy is concerned, the impact is completely controllable,” Gao said, adding “China does not fear any pressure, and has the confidence, resolution and ability to respond to any risk and challenge”.
The withdrawal from key positions along Syria's northern border came after the White House said it would step aside to allow for a Turkish operation President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has warned could come at any moment.
The move marks a major shift in US policy, and effectively abandons the Kurds, who were Washington's main ally in the years-old battle against the so-called Islamic State group.
The Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), the Kurdish-led militia that controls much of northeastern Syria, said early on Monday in a statement that "US forces withdrew from the border areas with Turkey".
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights war monitor confirmed that US forces had pulled back from key positions in Ras al-Ain and Tal Abyad.
A Kurdish official also told AFP that US forces had started withdrawing from the frontier, making way for the Turkish onslaught, the scope of which remains unclear. 
Turkey has sent reinforcements to the border in recent weeks, and Erdogan said Monday in televised remarks the long-threatened offensive could "come any night without warning".
His comments came after Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Twitter that Turkey was "determined to ensure our country's existence and security by clearing terrorists from this region". 
He was referring to the SDF, which has ties to Kurdish militants inside Turkey and which Ankara considers a terrorist organisation.
Fearing yet another chapter of bloodshed and mass displacement in the Syrian conflict, the United Nations said it was "preparing for the worst".
The European Union warned that civilians would once again bear the brunt of a military assault.
 'At all costs' 
In its statement, the White House made clear it would stand aside when its NATO ally Turkey moves in.
SDF spokesman Mustefa Bali said Washington's decision "is about to ruin the trust and cooperation between the SDF and US".
"People here are owed an explanation," he said on Twitter. 
The SDF, which spearheaded -- with backing from the US-led coalition -- several of the most significant battles against IS over the past five years, also vowed to resist any Turkish attack.
"As the Syrian Democratic Forces, we are determined to defend our land at all costs," it said in a statement posted on social media.
Ankara says it wants to urgently establish a "safe zone" on the other side of the border where it could send back some of the 3.6 million refugees who fled the eight-year war in Syria to live on Turkish soil.
But the Kurds argue that Turkey's goal is to weaken the Kurdish presence in the region by modifying the demographics of the area with the return of mostly Sunni Arab refugees.
Ankara's planned offensive is expected to focus on the border areas of Ras al-Ain and Tal Abyad, which are Arab-dominated towns governed by the Kurdish administration in northeast Syria. 
Kurdish forces have dug trenches and tunnels in the two areas in preparation for a Turkish offensive, according to the Observatory.
 'Prepare for war' 
In Ras al-Ain on Sunday, local armed forces allied with the Kurdish administration stood behind dirt berms, monitoring the frontier. 
They had covered streets in the town with large metal canopies to block the view of Turkish drones, sources there told AFP.
"The prudent should prepare for war," said Mustefa Bozan, a 79-year-old shopkeeper.
Nearby, Issam Daoud said that local security forces have erected checkpoints at key entrances to the town. 
"The fate of the region will be the same as that of Afrin," the 38-year-old said, referring to a former Kurdish enclave captured by Turkish troops and Syrian rebels last year. 
The SDF has also warned that a Turkish offensive would reverse the military gains achieved against IS and allow for the jihadist group's surviving leaders to come out of hiding.
In its statement, it said that IS cells would break out detained jihadists from Kurdish prisons and take over camps where their relatives are held.
But Turkey's presidential spokesman Ibrahim Kalin said Monday that Ankara "will also continue to fight against DAESH (IS) and will not allow it to return in any shape and form."
While a Kurdish-led operation earlier this year saw the death of IS's territorial caliphate, the organisation isn't dead and sleeper cells have been active in several parts of Syria and Iraq.
The US itself has warned that, short of sustained international military pressure on the remnants of the jihadist group, IS would soon have the ability to regroup and reclaim some territorial control in the region.
Indicating that he continues to trust Kim, despite making little progress in efforts to get Pyongyang to give up nuclear weapons, Trump said the North Korean strongman “has kept his word.”
“That’s very important to me,” he said at the White House.
Trump did not divulge what was in the letter from Kim. He has described previous letters as “beautiful” and even said that he and the leader of one of the world’s most repressive countries “fell in love.”
Trump has made history by meeting twice with Kim in a bid to lure North Korea into giving up nuclear weapons. However, US intelligence officials say Pyongyang has no intention of following through.
Despite widespread perceptions that the last summit, held in Hanoi in February, was a failure, Trump said he would be open to an eventual third meeting.
“It could happen but I want to bring it further down the line,” Trump said.
White House national security adviser John Bolton is also backing a new summit.
“We’re ready when they are,” he told The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday.
The ship’s seizure was widely seen as a tit-for-tat move after authorities in the British overseas territory of Gibraltar detained an Iranian tanker on suspicion it was shipping oil to Syria in breach of EU sanctions.
Tehran repeatedly denied the cases were related but a Gibraltar court last month ordered the Iranian tanker’s release despite an 11th-hour US legal bid to keep it in detention.
“The Stena Impero started sailing from the mooring towards the Persian Gulf’s international waters as of 9:00 am (0530 GMT) today,” Hormozgan province’s maritime organisation said on its website.
“Despite the vessel’s clearance, its legal case is still open in Iran’s courts,” the organisation added.
The Swedish-owned tanker’s captain and crew have “given a written, official statement that they have no claims.”
Iran’s state television website posted footage of the tanker discharging ballast water and said it was headed for the United Arab Emirates.
Iran’s Revolutionary Guards seized the vessel in the Strait of Hormuz on July 19 after surrounding it with attack boats and rappelling onto its deck.
It was impounded off the port of Bandar Abbas for allegedly failing to respond to distress calls and turning off its transponder after hitting a fishing boat.
Seven of its 23 crew members were released on September 4.
– Gulf tensions –
Tensions have risen in the Gulf since May last year when President Donald Trump unilaterally abandoned a 2015 nuclear deal between major powers and Iran and began reimposing crippling sanctions in a campaign of “maximum pressure”.
They flared again this May when Iran began reducing its own commitments under the deal and the US deployed military assets to the region.
Since then, ships have been attacked, drones downed and oil tankers seized.
In June, US President Donald Trump called off air strikes against Iran at the last minute after the Islamic republic’s forces shot down a US drone.
This month, twin attacks on Saudi oil infrastructure, which knocked out half the kingdom’s production, drew accusations ogf blame not only from Washington, but also from its European allies.
Tehran has denied any involvement in the attacks which were claimed by Iran-backed rebels fighting a Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.
The US has since formed a coalition with its allies Australia, Bahrain, Britain, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates to escort commercial shipping in the Gulf.
Tehran has warned that the planned US-led International Maritime Security Construct will cause more, not less instability and has proposed a rival security plan of its own.
Speaking at UN General Assembly in New York, President Hassan Rouhani announced a plan called “Hormuz Peace Endeavour” or “HOPE”.
He gave no details but called on all of Iran’s Gulf neighbours to join, saying: “Security cannot be provided with American weapons and intervention.”
Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted Thursday that the plan entails “dialogue, confidence-building, freedom of navigation, energy security, non-aggression, non-intervention.”






“I have worked long & hard with Robert. He will do a great job!” Trump tweeted
Last week, Trump abruptly fired John Bolton, a vigorous proponent of using US military force abroad and one of the main hawks in the administration on Iran.
O’Brien has until now served as Trump’s envoy for situations involving US hostages abroad.
He comes into the new job with backing from Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and senior Republicans in Congress.
Bolton, by contrast, was a highly controversial figure in Washington. His instincts for an aggressive, interventionist foreign policy were at odds with Trump’s more isolationist stance.
Trump said that one reason he fired Bolton was that he “wasn’t getting along with people in the administration who I consider very important” and “wasn’t in line with what we were doing.”
O’Brien will become the fourth national security advisor in Trump’s tumultuous first term.
“We regret the impact that the implementation will have on asylum seekers,” UN refugee agency spokesman Andrej Mahecic told reporters in Geneva.
The Supreme Court ruled earlier this week that Trump administration restrictions preventing most Central American migrants from applying for asylum at the US border could temporarily take effect while lower court proceedings play out.
The decision, which stayed a lower court’s temporary injunction, will be in effect while a broader case against the policy plays out in the courts.
The policy declares ineligible for asylum any migrants who enter the United States from the southern border and who have not asked for asylum protection in any of the countries they crossed to get to there.
While the Supreme Court ruling is only temporary, Mahecic voiced concern over the impact implementing the Trump policy could have on people seeking protection while the case winds its way through the courts.
He stressed that “any person fleeing violence or persecution must be able to access full and effective asylum procedures and international protection.”
Asylum requests at the southern US border are often made by families and unaccompanied children saying they have fled endemic violence and poverty in their countries, and Mahecic insisted that many are “in urgent need of safehaven”.
“It is imperative that those people be identified quickly and afforded the safety and assistance that they need, including the right to seek asylum,” he said.
Mahecic pointed out that the Supreme Court had not yet addressed the “substance of the policy in question”.
“We trust that the US courts will make the final determination on the merit of the case that reflects the consciousness of the protection risks involved,” he said.
The policy in question is among a host of measures Trump has taken in a bid to stem the flow of migrants, including the deployment of troops at the southern border.
Official statistics show the number of people apprehended or declared inadmissible at the southern border has dropped to around 64,000 in August, from more than 144,000 in May.
Trump announced his readiness to levy tariffs on all Mexican imports, beginning at five percent starting June 10 and rising to as high as 25 percent in coming months until Mexico substantially reduces the flow of illegal immigration.
Mexico’s President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said early Friday that his country was “doing our job” to stop the flow of undocumented migrants to the United States, and warned Trump that hitting his neighbor with tariffs would be a lose-lose game.
But the US president only doubled down on his threats of punishment, saying in a new flurry of tweets that “Mexico has taken advantage of the United States for decades.”
The impact of new tariffs would be devastating for Mexico, which sends 80 percent of its exports to the US.
Lopez Obrador reminded his American counterpart the tariffs would also take a heavy toll on the United States, whose largest trading partner so far this year is Mexico — thanks mainly to Trump’s trade war with China.
Earlier this month Trump, angered by what he deemed unfair Chinese trade practices, Trump raised punitive duties on $200 billion in Chinese imports from 10 to 25 percent. Beijing has promised retaliation.
The Mexico tariffs would exacerbate US trade tensions, with the effects rippling across multiple economic sectors, including the automobile industry and agriculture.
“No good can come of coercive measures…. These (tariffs) would not be good for Mexicans, but they would not be good for Americans either,” said Lopez Obrador.
He said his government would act prudently, adding he had already sent a delegation to Washington for talks, led by Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard.
Lopez Obrador refrained from mentioning possible retaliatory measures. But Mexico’s top diplomat for North America said Thursday the country would respond “vigorously” if Trump followed through.
Trump only stepped up his Twitter attacks.
“Mexico must take back their country from the drug lords and cartels. The Tariff is about stopping drugs as well as illegals!” he fumed.
– Market turmoil –
Global markets slumped over the latest trade war threat.
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 1.1 percent at mid-day. In Tokyo, shares closed down 1.6 percent, with losses led by automakers with operations in Mexico. European markets were also hit.
The Mexican peso lost 2.6 percent against the dollar.
The announcement came the same day Trump started the process of ratifying the new North American trade pact with Mexico and Canada, the USMCA — an agreement that now may be under threat.
Even some Republican allies warned Trump not to damage a vital trade relationship over border concerns.
“Trade policy and border security are separate issues,” Republican Senate Finance Committee chairman Chuck Grassley said in a rebuke of Trump’s plan.
“This is a misuse of presidential tariff authority and counter to congressional intent.”
Like Grassley, fellow Republican Senator Joni Ernst warned that placing new tariffs on Mexico would stifle progress on the USMCA.
“While I support the need for comprehensive border security and a permanent fix to illegal immigration, this isn’t the right path forward,” she said.
US industry groups voiced their disapproval, too, with the Business Roundtable warning Trump that unilateral imposition of tariffs “would be a grave error.”
Trump pledged in his 2016 election campaign to crack down hard on illegal immigration, but the numbers of migrants have steadily climbed.
– Clash over migrants –
The number of migrants apprehended at the US-Mexico border has topped 100,000 a month in recent months.
That included a new record of 58,474 people who crossed in family groups in April, and a single group of 1,036 people that particularly outraged Trump when it crossed into El Paso, Texas this week.
They are mostly people fleeing poverty and violence in Central America to ask for asylum once they reach US soil.
Trump has consistently demonized the migrants as criminals and gang members, and warned that illegal drugs are flowing across the border.
Lopez Obrador insisted his government is working to slow the flow.
“We are doing our job, without violating (migrants’) human rights,” said the left-wing populist, who has sought to maintain cordial relations with Trump despite the Republican billionaire’s frequent anti-Mexican outbursts.
He said his foreign minister would present officials in Washington with data showing that Mexico is taking steps “like never before” to send migrants back to their home countries or help them to stay and work in Mexico.
However, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders indicated Trump was unlikely to budge, saying the administration has “thought this through.”
Efforts at immigration reform have stalled in Congress, and Trump has been stymied by courts on some of the measures his administration has attempted.
Tapping his executive powers against a resistant Congress, Trump has also taken money from the military budget to construct sections of wall along the lengthy frontier, despite his campaign pledge that Mexico would pay for the barrier.






Envoys from Britain, France, Germany, China, Russia and Iran will take part in the meeting which comes a month after a similar gathering failed to achieve a breakthrough.
Tensions between Tehran and Washington have escalated since last year when US President Donald Trump pulled out of the accord that was aimed at curbing Iran’s nuclear programme, and imposed punishing sanctions.
In retaliation, Iran said in May it would disregard certain limits the deal set on its nuclear programme and threatened to take further measures if remaining parties to the deal, especially European nations, did not help it circumvent the US sanctions.
Pressure has continued to mount in the region with a string of incidents involving tankers and drones.
The US has said it brought down one and possibly two Iranian drones last week, and blamed Tehran for a series of mysterious attacks on tanker ships in strategic Gulf waters.
Iran shot down an unmanned US aircraft in June, after which Trump announced that he had called off retaliatory airstrikes at the last minute because the resulting death toll would have been too high.
The US and Gulf powerhouse Saudi Arabia have accused Iran of being behind multiple attacks on tankers in the Gulf in June, which Iran denies.
On July 19, a British-flagged tanker was impounded by Iran’s Revolutionary Guards with its 23 crew aboard in the Strait of Hormuz.
The seizure was seen by London as a tit-for-tat move for British authorities detaining an Iranian tanker off the UK overseas territory of Gibraltar in early July.
Efforts by European powers, notably France’s President Emmanuel Macron, to salvage the nuclear deal have so far come to nothing.
The remaining signatories, however, have pledged to work towards a breakthrough at a future ministerial meeting, for which no date has yet been fixed.
Referring to the need for a “preparatory meeting before the ministerial level meeting that will be necessary”, one European diplomat told AFP it was “imperative to talk to the Iranians after the proven violations of their commitments”.
The European Union said earlier this week the extraordinary meeting would be chaired by the secretary general of the European External Action Service, Helga Schmid.
It said the talks were requested by Britain, France, Germany and Iran and would examine issues linked to the implementation of Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), under which the 2015 deal is implemented.






The mass round-up of as many as 2,000 families who had been served with deportation orders or failed to show up for court appointments was expected to begin in up to 10 cities as early as Sunday.
“At the request of Democrats, I have delayed the Illegal Immigration Removal Process (Deportation) for two weeks to see if the Democrats and Republicans can get together and work out a solution to the Asylum and Loophole problems at the Southern Border,” he tweeted Saturday.
He added: “If not, Deportations start!”
It was not immediately clear what legislative measures might be considered in the two-week reprieve. Immigration reform is a long-sought goal by lawmakers in both parties but meaningful change has remained elusive amid partisan rancor.
Democratic US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi had urged Trump to call off the raids, alluding to his stated reason for scuttling a military strike on Iran in retaliation for its drowning of an unmanned US spy drone — as many as 150 lives would be lost, he said.
“I would hope he would apply that same value to avoiding the collateral damage to tens of thousands of children who are frightened by his actions,” Pelosi said in a statement.
She later tweeted: “Mr. President, delay is welcome. Time is needed for comprehensive immigration reform. Families belong together.”
No help from major cities 
Major US cities said to be targets of the now-postponed raids had vowed not to cooperate, with city leaders and civic groups from New York to San Francisco warning undocumented foreigners of their rights.
In Texas, an immigrant and refugee advocacy group called RAICES put out a tweet reminding immigrants of their rights if their home or place of work is raided: they can refuse to open the door, remain silent, refrain from signing anything and ask to speak to a lawyer.
“Only good faith bipartisan efforts will fix the system and ensure our country lives up to its own highest values and ideals,” said Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms of Atlanta, one of the cities girding for operations that Trump warned of on Monday.
US news outlets reported that the family roundups had been expected in up to 10 cities including Houston, Chicago, New York and Miami.
Earlier Saturday, Trump depicted the planned operation as “going by the rules, going by our court system, and taking people out of our country who came into our country illegally. They came into our country illegally and we’re taking them out legally.”
Much as he did to get elected in 2016, Trump is focusing on illegal migration as red meat to rally his conservative base as he seeks another term in 2020.
Earlier this month, Trump rattled world markets and defied his advisers by threatening tariffs on all Mexican imports unless it cracked down more on people pouring across the border into the United States.
Migrant apprehensions at the US border with Mexico reached 144,000 in May, the highest number in 13 years.
Mexico avoided the duties after agreeing to bolster security on its southern border and expand its policy of taking back migrants, most of them from violence-riven Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, as the United States processes their asylum claims.






US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo delivers a speech at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center in Athens on October 5, 2019. – US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo accused members of Congress of harassing his department to obtain documents linked to an impeachment investigation against President Donald Trump. (Photo by COSTAS BALTAS / POOL / AFP)
“There have been congressional inquiries that have harassed and abused State Department employees by contacting them directly and seeking to have them provide documents… that belong to the State Department, that are official US government records” he said during a visit in Greece.
“That’s harassment. And I’m never going to let that happen to my team.”
The US congressional committees leading the impeachment probe cranked up the heat on the White House this week.
Evidence is mounting evidence that Trump may have illicitly used his office to try to enlist Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky’s help to damage the bid of 2020 Democratic rival Joe Biden in exchange for military aid.
After dodging questions for days, Pompeo finally confirmed Wednesday that he had been on the telephone call when Trump pressed Ukraine for damaging information on Biden.
Pompeo’s Democratic critics say he is now a “witness” caught in a conflict of interest that should rule him out of decisions on how the State Department deals with the investigation.
He has been accused of “stonewalling” the investigation and trying to limit what his staff could discuss if they testify.
Speaking in Athens Saturday Pompeo, who has been subpoenaed in the probe, told reporters: “We all, obviously, do all the things we are required to do by law.”
His department would provide “all the documents required by the law”.
The US top official was in Greece to reinforce cooperation with its NATO ally, signing an amendment to a mutual defence agreement.






But investors in Asia were playing it cool ahead of Jerome Powell's address to the central bankers' symposium at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, on Friday which will be scrutinised for an idea of Fed interest rate policy.
Minutes from the bank's July meeting -- when it cut rates for the first time since the financial crisis -- said policymakers were flexible and borrowing costs were not on a "preset course" despite trade uncertainty and weak global growth.
Stephen Innes of Valour Markets said the minutes "painted a convincing enough picture that the Feds will continue to go along with the market's expectations for more cuts, as they will not want to tighten financial conditions, but at the same time not feel pressured to get ahead of the curve".
While the global economy stutters and the China-US trade row rumbles along, equity markets have found some solace in expectations the Fed will continue to lower rates.
 Disappointment risk 
But OANDA senior market analyst Jeffrey Halley pointed out that the minutes showed two governors wanted a 50 basis-point cut, two did not want a cut at all and the rest settled on 25 basis points, which was eventually chosen.
"It is hard to see Mr Powell announcing or implying an aggressive new easing cycle in isolation when just a month ago, the (policy board) was clearly very split as well," Halley said.
"The danger is most definitely that Chairman Powell disappoints".
Tokyo ended 0.1 percent higher, Shanghai edged up 0.1 percent and Sydney gained 0.3 percent.
Singapore put on 0.1 percent and Wellington gained 0.2 percent while Taipei was marginally higher.
But Hong Kong was one percent lower in the afternoon, while Seoul closed down 0.7 percent, Manila shed 1.3 percent, Mumbai retreated 0.6 percent and Jakarta lost 0.6 percent.
In early trade, London fell 0.5 percent, while Frankfurt and Paris each shed 0.4 percent.
Crude prices dipped following a recent rally fuelled by trade talks optimism and hopes for more rate cuts, though Halley warned they could quickly reverse course.
"Oil would be one of the most vulnerable markets to a Powell disappointment on Friday, and this should temper and short-term exuberance over the next 24-hours," he said.
- Key figures around 0720 GMT -
Tokyo - Nikkei 225: UP 0.1 percent at 20,628.01 (close)
Hong Kong - Hang Seng: DOWN 1.0 percent at 26,007.79
Shanghai - Composite: UP 0.1 percent at 2,883.44 (close)
London - FTSE 100: DOWN 0.5 percent at 7,170.78
Euro/dollar: UP at $1.1085 from $1.1083 at 2040 GMT
Pound/dollar: UP at $1.2123 from $1.2121
Euro/pound: UP at 91.45 pence from 91.42 pence 
Dollar/yen: UP at 106.35 yen from 106.23 yen
West Texas Intermediate: DOWN six cents at $55.62 per barrel
Brent North Sea crude: DOWN 11 cents at $60.19 per barrel
New York - Dow: UP 0.9 percent at 26,202.73 (close)
Here is a sampling of senior departures among his intelligence, foreign policy, and national security teams:
- Intelligence -
Dan Coats, a former Republican senator from Indiana, stepped down as Director of National Intelligence on August 15.
Coats was viewed as apolitical and enjoyed bipartisan support, but did not see eye to eye with Trump on a range of issues and at times appears to have been kept in the dark by his administration.
He backed the US intelligence community's conclusion that Russia interfered in the 2016 election that brought Trump to office -- something the president is loath to acknowledge -- and also disagreed with his decision to hold a two-hour closed-door meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in 2018.
Coats also said he does not believe North Korea is willing to give up its nuclear arsenal, as the president does, and warned that the Islamic State group -- despite Trump's assertions to the contrary -- was hardly vanquished and could easily rise again.
- Foreign policy -
Trump's first secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, was fired in March 2018, ending a rocky tenure for the former Exxon chief executive as the nation's top diplomat.
Tillerson was frequently at odds with the mercurial president and they notably disagreed on his decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal.
During Tillerson's brief stay at Foggy Bottom, he frequently found himself out of the loop and caught unawares by policy shifts announced in Trump tweets.
Since leaving office, Tillerson has said Trump was undisciplined and sometimes asked him to do things that were illegal.
Nikki Haley, the US ambassador to the United Nations, left the administration at the end of 2018.
While at the UN, the former governor of South Carolina was an astute advocate for Trump's foreign policy, using forceful language against North Korea, Syria, and Iran.
She was also unafraid to speak her mind and earned a reputation for standing up to Trump when she felt it was warranted.
- National security -
Trump has had three National Security Advisers since taking office -- Bolton, H.R. McMaster and Michael Flynn.
Trump announced the hawkish Bolton's firing on Tuesday, saying he "disagreed strongly with many of his suggestions."
Flynn, a retired lieutenant general, lasted only 22 days in the position. He was being investigated for his contacts with Russians when he was removed and eventually pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI.
Flynn's replacement, McMaster, also a lieutenant general, lasted barely a year.
McMaster never really clicked with the president, who bristled at his echoing the US intelligence establishment consensus that Russia meddled in the 2016 election.
Trump's Defense Secretary, James Mattis, a retired Marine Corps general, quit in December following a dispute with the president over US policy towards Syria.
In a terse resignation letter, Mattis told Trump he was stepping down so he could have a defense secretary "whose views are better aligned with yours."
Mattis, in his first public comments since leaving, said recently that he had to step down after his "concrete solutions and strategic advice, especially keeping faith with our allies, no longer resonated" with the US leadership.






The comments by America’s outspoken leader came after he told The Sun newspaper he thought former foreign secretary Boris Johnson would make an “excellent” prime minister to take over from Theresa May, the current leader who is to resign June 7 after failing to get her EU divorce text through parliament.
Trump is to embark on a three-day state visit to Britain from Monday, during which he will meet Queen Elizabeth II and have talks with May.
In his interview with The Sunday Times, he urged Britain’s government to follow his rule book in negotiating deals when it came to Brexit.
“If they don’t get what they want, I would walk away… If you don’t get the deal you want, if you don’t get a fair deal, then you walk away,” he said.
On the divorce bill — Britain’s liabilities as it leaves an economic and political bloc it has been part of since 1973 — Trump told the newspaper: “If I were them I wouldn’t pay $50 billion. That is me. I would not pay, that is a tremendous number.”
The US president, who is proud of his disruptive influence on politics in America and abroad, also said Britain’s anti-EU and populist politician Nigel Farage, head of the Brexit Party, should be involved in negotiating his country’s exit from the European Union.
“He is a very smart person” with a “lot to offer”, said Trump, although he acknowledged that British authorities “won’t bring him in”.
– Conservatives riven –
A majority of British voters decided in a 2016 referendum to leave the European Union. The exit was meant to have happened in March this year but as been pushed back twice as Britain has been locked in an impasse on how to achieve it.
The ruling Conservative party under May and the parliament are riven by what sort of Brexit they want: either a total break from the EU, or a closer relationship that implies accepting EU rules on trade and immigration.
After failing repeatedly to get her vision of Brexit passed, May has been forced to announce she will step down on Friday. More than a dozen Conservative MPs have thrown their hat in the ring to take over as party leader and prime minister, with Johnson seen as an early favourite.
Britain is hoping Trump’s visit will bolster its ambitions to work out a free trade deal with the United States if Brexit means a go-it-alone trade policy. 
Some Conservatives and the opposition Labour party, however, fear Britain would be steamrolled by the far bigger US into accepting an unbalanced accord, especially given Trump’s “America First” stance in shaking up trade ties with Mexico, Canada, Japan and China.
Large protests are planned during Trump’s visit to London.
The mayor of the capital, Sadiq Khan, said Sunday in a piece in The Observer newspaper that the US president was “one of the most egregious examples” of a growing global threat from the far-right.
Khan said Trump’s “divisive behaviour flies in the face of the ideals America was founded upon — equality, liberty and religious freedom”.
He added that populist politicians such as Farage and Hungary’s Prime Minister Viktor Orban “are using the same divisive tropes of the fascists of the 20th century to garner support, but are using new sinister methods to deliver their message”.
“China and Europe playing big currency manipulation game and pumping money into their system in order to compete with USA,” he said on Twitter.
Trump also implied that the Federal Reserve should likewise ease monetary policy, something he has called for in the past.
“We should MATCH, or continue being the dummies who sit back and politely watch as other countries continue to play their games — as they have for many years!” the president said. 
However, Trump's attorney signalled on Sunday night that the White House won't send anyone to the hearings, at least not right away.
"We cannot fairly be expected to participate in a hearing while the witnesses are yet to be named and while it remains unclear whether the Judiciary Committee will afford the President a fair process through additional hearings," White House counsel Pat Cipollone wrote in a letter to Jerry Nadler, the Democratic chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.
But Cipollone also did not rule out White House participation in the hearings entirely, instead requesting further details from Nadler on how the inquiry will be conducted and saying he will give him an answer by next Friday.
Trump has been unable to quash allegations in the House of Representatives investigation that he illegally sought help from Ukraine to obtain dirt on his domestic political rivals, including possible 2020 challenger Joe Biden.
Nadler's committee meets on Wednesday to begin determining whether the evidence compiled in the investigative phase of the process meets the constitutional impeachment standard of "treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanours."
The committee is expected to consider at least four counts, or articles of impeachment, including abuse of power, bribery, contempt of Congress and obstruction of justice.
"The president has accepted or enlisted foreign nations to interfere in our upcoming elections," said House impeachment leader Adam Schiff, a Democrat, in a November 25 statement.
"This is an urgent matter that cannot wait if we are to protect the nation's security and the integrity of our elections."
Trump and Republicans continue to brand the accusations and process as a political "witch hunt."
"This is a complete American waste of time," said Doug Collins, who as the leading Republican on the Judiciary Committee will lead that party's counterattack. He appeared on "Fox News Sunday."
 Impeachment vote by year-end 
The inquiry could go fast -- Democrats reportedly want to have the entire House vote on impeachment before the end of the year.
They are confident that they have strong evidence that Trump committed impeachable offences, despite the White House blocking the testimony of top presidential aides and refusing to hand over subpoenaed documents.
That refusal has angered Democrats.
"We're not going to play games with them," Val Demings, a Democratic member of the Judiciary Committee, told ABC on Sunday. "They need to respond to the request for documents and obey those lawful subpoenas."
Trump is alleged to have withheld military aid for Ukraine -- desperately sought by Kiev amid the ongoing border conflict against pro-Russian separatists -- as well as a desired high-profile summit with President Volodymyr Zelensky.
In exchange, Trump wanted Kiev to open investigations into Biden and a widely discredited theory that Ukraine interfered in the 2016 US elections on Democrats' behalf.
If the articles of impeachment are passed by the Democratic-controlled House as expected, Trump would go on trial in January in the Senate for removal from office.
Given Republican control of that chamber and the high hurdle of a two-thirds majority needed to convict, the president would very likely be cleared.
Still, Democrats see the process as important in reinforcing the rule of law and pushing back against a powerful president seen as showing little respect for Congress's powers.
 Trump won't take part 
Nadler had last week invited Trump and his attorneys to take part in the first hearing on Wednesday, an invitation which Cipollone declined.
"It is too late to cure the profound procedural deficiencies that have tainted this entire inquiry," Cipollone wrote in reply.
"Nevertheless, if you are serious about conducting a fair process going forward, and in order to protect the rights and privileges of the President, we may consider participating in future Judiciary Committee proceedings if you afford the Administration the ability to do so meaningfully," he added.
But Nadler has said that Trump's ability to participate could depend on whether he continues to refuse to make witnesses and documents available.
One Republican on the committee, Tom McClintock, told Fox that he believed top Trump aides "absolutely" should testify.
Democrats want to hear from former national security adviser John Bolton, acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. All three should have direct knowledge of Trump's actions toward Ukraine.
So far they have refused to testify, claiming "absolute immunity" as confidants of the president.
Collins tried to turn the tables on Democrats, saying Republicans want Schiff, the House impeachment manager, to testify. "If he chooses not to," he added, "then I really question his veracity." 
Led by Nadler, Trump's longtime nemesis, the televised hearings -- set to open at 10:00 am (1500 GMT) Wednesday -- are expected to be fiery.
With national elections less than one year away, Democrats need to convince Americans that impeaching Trump is justified and necessary.
Presidential candidate Amy Klobuchar, appearing Sunday on NBC, described the Ukraine affair in dramatic terms as "a global Watergate" -- going beyond the scope of the scandal that brought down President Richard Nixon.
Republicans, for their part, aim to show the exercise as a political attack on Trump. 
"He did nothing improper," Collins said. "There is nothing here that the president did wrong."
Trump told Britain’s ITV television in a wide-ranging interview that the military had strict rules regulating the use of prescription drugs.
“They take massive amounts of drugs, they have to, and you are not allowed to take drugs, you are in the military, you are not allowed to take any drugs,” Trump said.
“And they have to, after the operation, they have to, they have no choice.”
The ban went into force in April following a protracted legal battle that went all the way to the US Supreme Court.
The Pentagon says the restrictions are not a blanket ban. But they do bar an overwhelming majority of people who identify as transgender from enlisting.
The policies could also impact currently serving personnel.
“We have a great military and I want to keep it that way,” Trump told ITV.
“And maybe they’d be phenomenal. I think they’d probably be, but again you have very strict rules and regulations on prescription drugs and all these different things and they blow out of the water.”
Trump concludes a three-day state visit to Britain on Wednesday by attending the 75th-anniversary commemoration of D-Day in the south England city of Portsmouth.
The White House is seen at dusk on December 6, 2019 in Washington DC (Photo by MANDEL NGAN / AFP)
But Republicans demanded that Joe Biden’s son Hunter, the lawmaker leading the impeachment probe Adam Schiff, and the whistleblower at the origin of the inquiry all testify next week before the House Judiciary Committee.
“As you know, your impeachment inquiry is completely baseless and has violated basic principles of due process and fundamental fairness,” White House chief lawyer Pat Cipollone wrote in a letter to the committee chair, Jerry Nadler.
“House Democrats have wasted enough of America’s time with this charade. You should end this inquiry now and not waste even more time with additional hearings,” he wrote.
Cipollone issued the letter minutes before a deadline to declare whether the White House would deploy representatives to defend Trump against accusations he abused his office by pressuring Ukraine to find dirt on former vice president Biden, his potential challenger in the 2020 election.
– Impeachment review starts Monday –
Nadler’s committee is to meet starting Monday to review the evidence from investigators and decide whether to charge Trump with abuse of power, bribery, and obstruction.
Those charges could become articles of impeachment sent to the full House to vote on within weeks.
If they pass the Democratic-led House as expected, it would make Trump only the third president in US history to be impeached.
That would set up a trial next month in the Republican-controlled Senate, seen as likely to acquit him.
Trump is accused of pressuring Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to open investigations into Biden and his son, and also into a widely-dismissed theory that Ukraine helped Democrats in the 2016 election.
The US leader is accused of demanding Zelensky announce the investigations in exchange for the release of military aid and a high-profile summit — which Democrats say constitutes bribery.
Democrats also say Trump’s actions amount to soliciting foreign interference in American elections — which is barred by US laws.
Trump denies any wrongdoing but has refused to cooperate with the inquiry, citing his privilege as president to prevent top aides from testifying.
Cipollone told Nadler in the letter that adopting articles of impeachment “would be a reckless abuse of power” and constitute “the most unjust, highly partisan, and unconstitutional attempt at impeachment in our nation’s history.”
– Trump: ‘Do it now‘ –
He repeated Trump’s tweet of Thursday: “If you are going to impeach me, do it now, fast, so we can have a fair trial in the Senate, and so that our country can get back to business.”
In a statement, Nadler accused Trump of continuing to block “key evidence” from Congress.
“We gave President Trump a fair opportunity to question witnesses and present his own to address the overwhelming evidence before us,” Nadler said.
“If the President has no good response to the allegations, then he would not want to appear before the committee. Having declined this opportunity, he cannot claim that the process is unfair.” 
Meanwhile, the senior Republican on the Judiciary Committee, Doug Collins, announced a list of witnesses his camp wishes to subpoena “to provide context and transparency about the underlying facts at issue.”
Besides Schiff, the list includes Hunter Biden and his business partner Devon Archer, who both sat on the board of a Ukraine energy company Burisma, which Trump allegedly pressured Zelensky to investigate.
Also included was the whistleblower, believed to be a CIA analyst who reported his concerns about Trump’s demands of Zelensky; possible government contacts of the whistleblower; White House national security official Alexander Vindman, whose earlier testimony strongly supported the allegations against Trump.
With the exception of Vindman, there was little likelihood Nadler would accept the witness list.






At a time when “serious and complicated changes are happening in international and regional situations”, KCNA said, the two leaders agreed to “promote close strategic communication” and develop their “common interests”.
Pyongyang pulled out all the stops to welcome Xi, the first Chinese president to visit in 14 years — a period in which Pyongyang has carried out five nuclear tests and launched missiles capable of reaching the entire US mainland.
China always prefers stability in its neighbourhood and the North’s nuclear provocations strained the relationship between the Cold War allies, with Beijing backing UN sanctions on Pyongyang and Kim not visiting to pay his respects for more than six years after inheriting power.
But as he embarked on a flurry of diplomacy last year, Kim ensured that Xi — whose country is the North’s key diplomatic supporter and the main provider of trade and aid — was the first head of state he met.
Kim travelled to China three more times to meet Xi, and Pyongyang has been increasingly keen for the Chinese president to reciprocate.
Analysts say, Xi, who left Pyongyang on Friday, intended to use the trip as a signal to Trump of his influence with Kim, a week before the G20 summit in Japan.
The world’s top two economies are embroiled in the protracted trade war and their leaders are expected to meet in Osaka.
Similarly nuclear negotiations between the North and the US are deadlocked, after the second summit between Kim and Trump broke up in Hanoi in February with the two unable to reach a deal on sanctions relief and what the North might give up in return.
But North Korean media did not carry comments by Kim reported by Chinese state broadcaster CCTV, which quoted him as saying that he was “willing to be patient” in the talks with the US, but wanted “the parties concerned” to meet him halfway.
Xi told him that China “positively evaluated” the North’s efforts, CCTV said.
Jeung Young-tae, director of the Institute of North Korean Studies in Seoul, said the summit amounted to China giving Kim strong backing in the process.
“Xi is saying that he will help Kim resist pressure from the US and calling on Kim to stick to his demands,” he told AFP.
Pyongyang has repeatedly called for Washington to adopt “a new method of calculation” for the negotiations, and Hong Min, a senior researcher at the South’s state-run Korea Institute for National Unification said Xi’s visit gave Kim a “political and diplomatic opening to resume talks with the US again”.
 ‘Friendly affection’ 
North Korean authorities deployed tens of thousands of citizens to line the streets to welcome Xi, with KCNA saying they expressed their “friendly affection” for Chinese citizens who have “shared joys and sorrows” with them in the pursuit of socialism.
Kim and Xi rode together through the streets of Pyongyang in an open-topped Mercedes Benz limousine, and on Thursday evening Xi and his entourage were treated to a special performance of the North’s Mass Games.
It featured multiple images of Chinese-Korean history and friendship on the backdrop – made up of thousands of children turning the pages of coloured books – slogans, and a portrait of Xi.
Songs in the show included “I love thee, China”, and the Rodong Sinmun newspaper, the mouthpiece of the North’s ruling party, carried front-page pictures of Kim and his wife Ri Sol Ju welcoming Xi.
Beijing sent millions of troops known as “Chinese People’s Volunteers” to save the North from defeat during the Korean War, and Mao Zedong described their relations as “close as lips and teeth”.
Nowadays Beijing sees the North as a strategic buffer, keeping the 28,500 US troops in South Korea far from its borders.
The senators are reviving the controversial Bill on Hate Speech. Lai Mohammed, Information Minister first gave hints of it in 2017. Formal legislative steps were, however, taken in March last year, 2018, to put life into the bill and enact it into law. On finding that it was hot as red charcoal, smart guy Senate President Bukola Saraki quickly threw it out of the window. There was uproar across the land and Saraki knew the Senate could not successfully swim against the tide of public sentiments and opinion. Saraki had sufficient political education to know that Nigerians would not surrender their freedoms nor allow any abridgement of same.
The current set of senators seems determined to ram the obnoxious law down our throats. Captioned “National Commission for the Prohibition of Hate Speeches,” the bill reads: “A person who uses, publishes, presents, produces, plays, distributes and/or directs the performance of any material, written and/or visual which is threatening, abusive or insulting or involves the use of threatening , abusive or insulting words or behaviour commits an offence if such a person intends thereby to stir up ethnic hatred, or having regard to all the circumstances, ethnic hatred is likely to be stirred up against any person or person from such an ethnic group in Nigeria.”
Here are the consequences of what can be regarded as hate speech: “Any person who commits an offence under this section shall be liable to life imprisonment and where the act causes any loss of life, the person shall be punished with death by hanging.”
The aspect of the bill that carries lighter punishment states as follows: “A person who subjects another to harassment on the basis of ethnicity commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to an imprisonment for a term not less than five years or to a fine of not less than N10 million, or both.”
The Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate, Abdullahi Aliu Sabi representing Niger State who brought the bill, states that it is aimed at eliminating all forms of hate speeches; promoting the elimination of all forms of hate speeches against persons or ethnic groups; as well as advising the Federal Government on the matter.
For the record, there is the need to state other aspects of the prospective draconian law so that Nigerians know the dragnet being prepared for them and in their name. For example, the bill goes further to state as follows: “a person who subjects another to harassment on the basis of ethnicity for the purposes of this section, where on ethnicity for purposes of this section where, on ethnic grounds, he unjustifiably engages in conduct which has the purpose or effect of violating that other person’s dignity; or creating an intimidating, degrading, hostile, humiliating or offensive environment for the person subjected to the harassment.”
Politicians and those in authority have always been irritated by freedoms beginning with the freedom of speech. Once in power they hardly tolerate freedom of speech, of association, of movement in form of protest marches, and sometimes freedom of thought despite the clear declaration of the land’s law granting same. I do hope the lawyers will dust their wigs and gown to do battle. I note the media is already rolling up their sleeves as court of public opinion as defenders of liberty and freedom, to rise to what I see as a call to duty. I mention lawyers because ab initio I see the new bill being in conflict with the constitution, the land’s grundnnum. To alter any the provision of the document it must go round the states first by sensitizing the citizens to the imperative of the change, and then to the various houses of assembly in the land. With the rush the senators are giving to the law, they are not desirous of exposing the bill to public debate.
Yes, I say politicians have close to zero tolerance for freedom of speech with the inherent freedom of criticism it comes with. The curb they institute comes in different forms and disguises. The first assault came with the Newspapers Amendment Act of 1964, enacted by the Balewa Administration. That Act prohibited publications regarded as injurious even if they were true as long as they were embarrassing. On account of alleged violation of the Act, two notable journalists were sent to jail—Dapo Fatogun and Ayo Ojewumi, the irrepressible editor of the Nigerian Tribune. Under Gowon’s Decree 2, reporters were routinely invited to Obalende, to the E-Branch. Is it conceivable that Alhaji Babatunde Jose, chairman/managing director of the Daily Times, the biggest newspaper empire Africa South of the Sahara, and his deputy, Leban Omowale Namme, could be locked up, with their editors, Henry Odukomaiya and Segun Osoba—all stripped to their singlets and underwears? It happened. The embarrassed police constable on duty, a decent man, who could not bear seeing Jose being so humiliated, sought to prevail on him to put on his clothes at the risk of losing his job. When Jose said he did not want him to lose his job, he said he was ready to lose it. The Daily Times was shut down for about five days. That was in November 1969. There was an outcry all over the free world. The Daily Times’ offence: Campaign against corruption. LKJ, Lateef Jakande simply wrote to Inspector-General Kam Salem that instead of his men harassing his editors, it was he the police should come for.
The Newspapers Amendment Act after being shot down several times by our alert courts, it reincarnated 20 years later in the guise of Decree 4 of 1984. As it was with the Newspaper Amendment Act, the decree criminalized the publication of truth that embarrassed the government and its functionaries. The Buhari Military administration wasted no time in using it to encircle The Guardian. Two of the newspaper’s line editors, Tunde Thompson and Nduka Irabor, the news editor were each jailed for one year; the deputy editor was locked up at Awolowo for three days while the editor was asked to be reporting at Awolowo office of the then NSO. The newspaper was fined N50,000. The offence of the newspaper was that it published truth that embarrassed. The paper reported that Gen. Hannaniya was being posted to Britain as Nigeria’s High Commissioner and Col. Sanni Bello to Zimbabwe as our High Commissioner. Both were sent to their respective stations. Brig-General Tunde Idiagbon was later to say to The Guardian editors that the newspaper did not wait for the ambassadors to first present their credentials before rushing to press. Of course, he was told one of the rules of the practice of journalism: Government conceals, the press reveals! The travail of the newspaper continued for years. The newspaper was closed down twice, and the publisher shot in the most wicked act!
I will be surprised if all these are lost on Lai Mohammed whose first degree was in mass communications before reading law.
I have gone down memory lane so that Nigerians would know what they are unsuspectingly getting into. The indefatigable and erudite Bishop of Sokoto, the Most Rev. Matthew Kuka, said the other day that the only dividend of democracy is freedom. He said the distinguishing difference between a democratic administration and a military regime is freedom. He went on to say that military provided infrastructure, built roads, set up river basin authorities and built dams etc. They built refineries and more which are what the civilian administrations are also doing. No administration has matched Gowon in the building of infrastructures, opening up the country, for example.
Let’s consider this scenario if Ahmad Lawan/ Abdullahi Sabi law were in place when Peter Pan (Peter Enahoro) wrote the following in 1979: “Once upon a time, in the early 60s, Jaja Wachukwu, Nigerian Foreign Minister led his country’s delegation to the United Nations-sponsored world disarmament talks in Geneva. The cold war was at its fiercest, the international atmosphere bleak with the looming possibility of the bitter ideological conflict, exploding into a shooting war.
“There was some relief in the fact that both sides acknowledged that in the age of atomic bombs, there would be no victors in a shooting war and that only the scarred and mutilated survivors of a hideous holocaust would be around to inherit a devastated world poisoned by deadly dust clouds.
“In their bewilderment to arrest the on-rush towards mutual annihilation, the big boys sought the support of the newly-independent African and Asian states to vindicate their opposing belligerency. It was a brief and fascinating period during which the new nations were rewarded with the myth that they were the harbinger of a new moral code that would protect the weak from the strong and even the strong from the strong.
“Jaja Wachukwu as the Foreign Minister of the most populous and potentially the most powerful state in Africa was met at Geneva Airport by a corps of newsmen whose number if not quality would have satisfied the pride of the representatives of a nation with military capability to win World War Three single handed.
“What original ideas did he have to put to the disarmament commission? He was asked. Jaja Wachukwu thrust out his chin and delivered a memorable onslaught: ’Gentlemen’, he said expansively. ”I can assure you, I have come to Geneva with an empty mind.’
“We have since forgiven Jaja Wachukwu, for what difference would it have made if he had arrived in Geneva brimming with an overflowing mind? The Africans were invited to make up the numbers!”
Under the new Bill Peter Pan would have been marked for hanging, or made to end up as a lifer or be fined N10million.
What would happen were Washington Post, New York Times, USA Today to be Nigerian newspapers with Ahmad Lawan and Abdullahi Sabi law ? Hear them:
Washington Post wrote: “It’s beyond debate that Donald Trump is unfit to be President.” It went on: “Even if Trump manages to conduct himself ‘presidentially’ for an hour and a half, that could not undo the many many instances…in which he has insulted, acted out, lied and countenanced violence beyond even some of the most rough and tumble precedents of modern American politics.”
USA TODAY: “Resist the siren song of a dangerous demagogue. By all means vote, just not for Donald Trump.”
Chicago Sun-Times: ‘…the best way to avert a train wreck is to wave a warning flag as soon as possible.”
New York Times: “The Republican Party’s trek into the darkness took a fateful step in Indiana on Tuesday.’’ In the editorial captioned: “Why Donald Trump should not be President,” the newspaper said “:…the reality-star turned GOP candidate’s views are matters of dangerous impulse and criminal powering rather than thoughtful politics. He has attracted throngs of Americans who ascribe higher purpose than he has demonstrated in a freewheeling campaign marked by bursts of false and outrageous allegations, personal insults, xenophobic nationalism, unapologetic sexism and positions that shift according to his audience and his whims… His right to spew nonsense is protected by the constitution, but the public doesn’t have to swallow it.”
These are just a few of samples of how the media functions. The major newspapers as in the foregoing rose against the election of Mr. Trump in 2016. Up till today, they have not let up.
The Nigerian constitution gives the media a clearly stated role. It is to hold the government accountable to the people. This is the role against which the senators are rising by their bill. It may require restating that free speech is not a civic right but an inalienable human right that cannot be tampered with. There are enough laws in our books to deal with errant media organizations and journalists. President Jonathan said it to the whole world that he was the most abused, criticized and insulted President in the whole world. It is the age-long media culture of a free society Buhari and the legislators took advantage of to get to power. They should not be allowed to shrink it. It is amazing that it is a law such as this that the Senate considers the nation’s priority at this time in the face of daunting problems and difficulties in the land. The Lawan/ Sabi Bill must be spiked and thrown into the waste bin.






The world’s top two economies ended two days of negotiations in Washington on Friday with no deal. While making it clear that the US was unwilling to settle, Kudlow sought to tamp down concerns, insisting the process was ongoing.
“We need to see something much clearer and until we do, we have to keep our tariffs on,” Kudlow said in an interview on “Fox News Sunday,” adding: “We can’t accept any backtracking.”
As for future negotiations, while there are “no concrete, definite plans yet,” Kudlow said China had invited Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer to Beijing — and higher-level discussions could be on the cards.
The chances of Trump and Xi meeting during the Group of 20 summit in Japan in late June “are probably pretty good,” the top White House aide said.
The G20 summit is scheduled to take place in Osaka on June 28-29.
Trump had accused Beijing of reneging on its commitments in trade talks and ordered new punitive duties, which took effect Friday, on $200 billion worth of Chinese imports, raising them to 25 percent from 10 percent.
He then ordered a tariff hike on almost all remaining imports — $300 billion worth, according to Lighthizer — from China.
No timetable yet
But Kudlow insisted it would be months before such punitive measures, following a period of public comment, and that there was still time to negotiate, though he refused to “put a timetable” on how long Trump was willing to wait.
“We have to change the trading relationship between two countries for the benefit of the United States and its workforce and its ranchers and farmers and so forth. We have to do this,” Kudlow said. “The relationship has been too unbalanced.”
In his own comments on Saturday, Trump struck a more belligerent tone, urging China that it would be “wise for them to act now.”
“They know I am going to win… and the deal will become far worse for them if it has to be negotiated in my second term,” Trump tweeted.
While supporters laud Trump as a tough negotiator, free-trade-minded Republicans have warned that the tariffs could do real damage to the economy, and many farmers — including Trump supporters — say the tariffs have hit their bottom line.
Kudlow said he believed any damage to the US economy would be far less than predicted, and that it was a risk “we should and can take.”
WESTERVILLE, OHIO – OCTOBER 15: Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ), Sen. Kamala Harris (D-CA), Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT), former Vice President Joe Biden, and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) interact during the Democratic Presidential Debate at Otterbein University on October 15, 2019 in Westerville, Ohio. A record 12 presidential hopefuls are participating in the debate hosted by CNN and The New York Times.   Win McNamee/Getty Images/AFP
The three-hour marathon saw Democrats largely unite against a common foil — President Donald Trump, whom many candidates said should be impeached — while expressing sharp disagreements over policy.
Here are four key questions following the debate.
– Is Warren the frontrunner? –
The progressive senator from Massachusetts last week finally drew even with former vice president Biden in polling, and her debate rivals unleashed a barrage of attacks as they gave Warren the frontrunner treatment for the first time.
Criticism piled up over her failure to explain how to pay for her ambitious plans and her lack of foreign policy credentials.
Ex-congressman Beto O’Rourke accused her of “being punitive” with her plan to tax the wealthy, while Senator Amy Klobuchar savaged Warren’s universal health care plan as a “pipe dream.”
“Simply because you have different ideas doesn’t mean you’re fighting for regular people,” Klobuchar said.
Warren parried most attacks and presented her counterargument that energizing disaffected Americans to vote rather than promote a return to “business as usual” is the best way to defeat Trump.
“The way we’re going to win is by addressing head-on what millions of Americans know in their bones, and that is that the wealthy and the well-connected have captured our democracy, and they’re making it work for themselves and leaving everyone else behind,” Warren said.
– Shrinking Biden? –
If Warren presented herself as the chief obstacle for anyone else seeking the nomination, Biden appeared as a less commanding presence, straying occasionally from the questions and offering some unsteady responses that generated little enthusiasm.
He was forceful in his critique of Warren on financial issues and had a strong moment when he sold his advanced age and experience as an asset for the presidency. “With it comes wisdom,” the 76-year-old said.
But Biden failed to deliver a resounding blow against Trump when asked to address the president’s criticism of him and his son Hunter Biden over their involvement in Ukraine.
On Wednesday, Biden sounded unfazed by Warren’s rise, telling reporters in Ohio “it’s kind of about time other people get questioned.”
But he added that Warren ought to speak with more “candor” about her plans: “Tell us how you’re going to do what you say you’re going to do,” he said.
– Room for non-Biden moderates? –
Tuesday saw poise and previously unseen aggressiveness by Klobuchar and small-town mayor Pete Buttigieg, who were making the case for moderate alternatives to Biden.
Buttigieg, the first openly gay major US presidential candidate, launched his campaign with a bang but then failed to climb into the top tier. His fortunes could rise after a smart, strong performance.
The Indiana native went on the offensive, attacking Warren on health care, O’Rourke for seeking to seize private citizens’ guns, and fellow veteran Tulsi Gabbard for supporting Trump’s Syria troop withdrawal.
Throughout he appeared eager to prevent Democrats from shifting too far leftward in support of policies that may not play well in middle America, such as the Warren-backed universal health care proposal known as Medicare for All.
Klobuchar delivered a solid performance as another Midwest pragmatist who, while still progressive on social issues, suggested a “reality check” against Warren liberalism.
“I want to win those states that we lost last time, and I have bold ideas to get us there.” 
– Bernie bouncing back? –
The grumpy darling of the far left suffered a mild heart attack this month, understandably raising questions about his health.
But he appeared energized onstage, joking with moderators and pronouncing himself healthy. “I’m feeling great,” he said, insisting he will be mounting a “vigorous campaign” over the coming months.
Polling numbers for Sanders have slumped and he trails Warren and Biden, but he remains a formidable force in the race, having outraised all rivals in the third quarter.
During the debate, US media reported Sanders won the endorsement of popular congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and fellow liberals Ilhan Omar and Rashida Tlaib.
Sanders announced he is returning to the campaign trail with a major rally this weekend in New York.






He spent about an hour and a half at a hospital with staff and victims before he and his wife Melania were driven to the city's emergency operations center to meet with police officers.
Protesters gathered in the streets, watched by armed police. "Go home. You are NOT welcome here!" and "Trump hatred, racism not welcome here" read two of the signs.
Similar scenes unfolded at an earlier stop in Dayton, Ohio, the site of another mass shooting over the weekend, in which nine people died.
Pro-Trump protesters also took to the streets in both cities, illustrating the sense of division in the country ahead of next year's election.
 Question of respect 
Journalists were mostly kept away from the Republican president, but in brief comments near the end of the two-city trip, Trump said he'd had an "amazing day."
Then after praising the "heroes" who confronted the killers, Trump used his one appearance before the cameras to reignite his feud with opponents who accuse him of racism and who had argued against him visiting either Ohio or Texas.
"They shouldn’t be politicking today," he said, calling Ohio Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown, who questioned the use of Trump's visit to Dayton, "very dishonest."
Apparently stung by the less-than-enthusiastic reception given to him by some leaders in both cities, Trump also made a point of insisting that he'd been treated warmly.
"The love, the respect for the office of the presidency, it was -- I wish you could there to see it," he told journalists.
Trump returned to that theme in a tweet announcing his departure from El Paso, saying: "The Fake News worked overtime trying to disparage me and the two trips, but it just didn't work. The love, respect & enthusiasm were there for all to see."
Earlier, Trump's social media director Dan Scavino tweeted that the president had been treated like a "Rock Star" in the Dayton hospital.
The White House, which had kept away news photographers, saying that it didn't want to treat the visit as a photo-op, subsequently published its own pictures showing Trump alongside medical staff, police and victims.
 Feuding consoler in chief  
In Dayton, Trump told shooting survivors that "you had God watching. I want you to know we're with you all the way," according to presidential spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham.
But the traditional presidential role of consoler-in-chief blended awkwardly with accusations that Trump is himself to blame for rising tensions in the United States over race. 
Trump vehemently denies any racism but his choice of language, linking Hispanic migrants to murder, rape and invasion, is widely seen as at best incendiary.
A famed border city, El Paso is at the center of Trump's high-profile political campaign against illegal immigration and his keystone project of building walls along the Mexican frontier.
The killer deliberately sought out the city, claiming to be stopping an "invasion" of illegal migrants -- a term popularized by Trump repeatedly in campaign speeches.
As recently as May, the president laughed and made a quip when a supporter at one of his rallies yelled that they should "shoot" illegal immigrants.
Leading Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden gave a speech on Wednesday accusing Trump of fanning "the flames of white supremacy."
And Trump, who'd begun the day at the White House by insisting that his rhetoric "brings people together," went on Twitter from Air Force One to respond.
"Watching Sleepy Joe Biden making a speech. Sooo Boring!" Trump wrote while flying between Dayton and El Paso.
- Gun control? -
Where Trump and his mostly leftist opponents agree is on the unambiguous designation of the two events as terrorism.
Massacres by mostly lone gunmen are all but routine in the United States, where guns are easy to obtain legally and mass killings have taken on a sort of cult status in extreme circles.
Hardline defenders of gun ownership have long resisted the portrayal of such tragedies as anything more than random, localized events.
But Trump on Monday said he had told the FBI to treat such crimes as "domestic terrorism."
On Wednesday, Trump also said that Republicans and Democrats were "close" to agreeing on stronger background checks for people buying firearms -- a measure opposed by gun rights lobbyists.
"I think background checks are important. I don't want to put guns into the hands of mentally unstable people or people with rage or hate," Trump said.
However, he said, "there is no political appetite" for banning military-style assault weapons, which are widely available and are often chosen by mass killers.
Trump relayed the intelligence report in a tweet as protesters paralyzed Hong Kong airport for a second day in defiance of the city’s leaders.
“Our Intelligence has informed us that the Chinese Government is moving troops to the Border with Hong Kong. Everyone should be calm and safe!” Trump said in a tweet.
Chinese state and social media had earlier aired video of security forces gathering across the border from the enclave, which has been rocked by unrest for ten weeks.
The Global Times and the People’s Daily ran a minute-long video compiling clips of armored personnel carriers and troop carriers purportedly driving to Shenzhen, which borders Hong Kong.
The video shows roughly two dozen armored carriers apparently driving through the southern city of Guangzhou and other troop carriers leaving eastern Fujian province.
Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of the state-run Global Times, said on social media that the military presence is a sign that if the situation in Hong Kong doesn’t improve, China will intervene.
Speaking to reporters in Morristown, New Jersey, Trump called the situation in Hong Kong “very tricky.”
“I hope it works out peacefully, nobody gets hurt, nobody gets killed,” he said.






Trump told the nation in a televised address from the White House that US forces killed a "large number" of Islamic State militants during the raid which culminated in cornering Baghdadi in a tunnel, where he set off a suicide vest.
"He ignited his vest, killing himself," Trump said.

Read More: IS head Baghdadi believed dead after US strike in Syria

"He died after running into a dead-end tunnel, whimpering and crying and screaming all the way," Trump said, adding that three of Baghdadi's children also died in the blast.
Trump said that the raid -- which required flying more than an hour by helicopter in both directions from an undisclosed base -- had been accomplished by help from Russia, Syria, Turkey, and Iraq.
Special forces "executed a dangerous and daring nighttime raid in northwestern Syria and accomplished their mission in grand style."
At its height, Islamic State-controlled swaths of Iraq and Syria in a self-declared state known as a caliphate, characterized by the brutal imposition of a puritanical version of Islam.
In addition to oppressing the people it governed, Islamic State planned or inspired terrorist attacks across Europe, while using expertise in social media to lure large numbers of foreign volunteers.
It took years of war, in which Islamic State became notorious for mass executions and sickening hostage murders before the caliphate's final slice of territory in Syria was seized this March.
The death of Baghdadi comes as a big boost for Trump, whose abrupt decision to withdraw a small but effective deployment of US forces from Syria caused fears that it would give Islamic State remnants and sleeper cells a chance to regroup.
Trump took a storm of criticism, including from his own usually loyal Republican Party.
In keeping with his liking for showmanship, Trump had teased the news late Saturday with an enigmatic tweet saying merely that "Something very big has just happened!"
- Scorched vehicle -
A war monitor said US helicopters dropped forces in an area of Syria's Idlib province where "groups linked to the Islamic State group" were present.
The helicopters targeted a home and a car outside the village of Barisha in Idlib province said the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which is based in Britain but relies on a network of sources inside Syria for its information.
The operation killed nine people including an IS senior leader called Abu Yamaan as well as a child and two women, it said.
An AFP correspondent outside Barisha saw a minibus scorched to cinders by the side of the road, and windows shattered in a neighbor's house surrounded by red agricultural land dotted with olive trees.
A resident in the area who gave his name as Abdel Hameed said he rushed to the place of the attack after he heard helicopters, gunfire, and strikes in the night.
"The home had collapsed and next to it there was a destroyed tent and vehicle. There were two people killed inside" the car, he said.
From the outskirts of Barisha, an inhabitant of a camp for the displaced also heard helicopters followed by what he described as US-led coalition airstrikes.
They "were flying very low, causing great panic among the people," Ahmed Hassawi told AFP by phone.
Another resident, who gave his name as Abu Ahmad and lives less than 100 meters away from the site of the destroyed house, said he heard voices "speaking a foreign language" during the raid.
The AFP correspondent said the area of the night-time operation had been cordoned off by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, a group dominated by members of Syria's former Al-Qaeda affiliate controlling Idlib.
Between the trees, bulldozers could be seen at the site, clearing out the rubble.
- 'Joint intelligence'-
Turkey, which has been waging an offensive against the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in northeast Syria in recent weeks, had "advance knowledge" about the raid, a senior Turkish official said.
"To the best of my knowledge, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi arrived at this location 48 hours prior to the raid," the official told AFP.
The commander-in-chief of the SDF, who has been fighting IS in Syria, said the operation came after "joint intelligence work" with American forces.
Trump also said that Iraq had been "very good" over the raid.
He said no US soldiers were wounded, despite "doing a lot of shooting" and "a lot of blasting." The only US casualty was a military dog in the tunnel with the trapped Islamic State leader.
Long pursued by the US-led coalition against IS, Baghdadi has been erroneously reported dead several times in recent years.
- $25 million reward -
Baghdadi -- and Iraqi native believed to be around 48 years old -- was rarely seen.
After 2014 he disappeared from sight, only surfacing in a video in April with a wiry grey and red beard and an assault rifle at his side, as he encouraged followers to "take revenge" after the group's territorial defeat.
His reappearance was seen as a reassertion of his leadership of a group that -- despite its March defeat -- has spread from the Middle East to Asia and Africa and claimed several deadly attacks in Europe.
The US State Department had posted a $25 million reward for information on his whereabouts.
In September, the group released an audio message said to be from Baghdadi praising the operations of IS affiliates in other regions.
It also called on scattered IS fighters to regroup and try to free thousands of their comrades held in jails and camps by the SDF in northeastern Syria.






Washington accuses Huawei of working directly with the Chinese government and its intelligence services, which it says could pose security risks — claims the company denies.
In May, Trump hit Huawei with an executive order that effectively banned it from trading with any US companies, although a temporary license was issued shortly after.
At the meeting were Sundar Pichai of Google, Chuck Robbins, of Cisco, Robert Swan of Intel, Sanjay Mehrotra of Micron, Stephen Milligan of Western Digital Corporation, Steven Mollenkopf of Qualcomm, and Hock Tan of Broadcom.
“The CEOs expressed strong support of the president’s policies, including national security restrictions on United States telecom equipment purchases and sales to Huawei,” the White House said.
“They requested timely licensing decisions from the Department of Commerce, and the president agreed. The group was also optimistic about United States 5G innovation and deployments,” the statement read.
Huawei — a leader in next-generation 5G wireless technology — is barred from developing such networks in the United States.
Trump has put Huawei on its so-called entity list, which meant US companies needed a license to supply US technology to the Chinese firm.
Washington has been pressuring its allies to avoid using Huawei for the deployment of 5G wireless.
The news comes as The Washington Post reported that Huawei secretly helped North Korea build and maintain the country’s commercial wireless network.
The Post, citing internal documents it obtained and people familiar with the arrangement, said Huawei has partnered with a Chinese state-owned firm Panda International Information Technology on projects in North Korea over at least eight years.
By doing so Huawei, which has used US technology in its components, may have violated US controls on exports to the isolated North Korea regime.
US President Donald Trump speaks during a ceremony to award the National Medal of Arts and National Humanities Medals in the East room of the White House on November 21, 2019. (Photo by Andrew CABALLERO-REYNOLDS / AFP)
Lawmakers investigating whether Trump abused his office by bullying Ukraine into assisting his reelection efforts have spent three days hearing the most explosive witness testimony since the scandal broke.
Democrats accuse Trump of demanding Ukraine’s assistance in a July 25 phone call and via a circle of accomplices, mainly senior figures in his administration. 
He stalled almost $400 million in military aid and a White House visit for new Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky, allegedly to coerce Kiev — which is at war with Russia — into helping.
The plot would have worked, say Democrats, if not for a whistleblower whose complaint about the July call reached Congress on September 9, ensuring the aid was handed over two days later.
“What we’ve seen here is far more serious than a third-rate burglary of the Democratic headquarters,” said House Intelligence Committee chairman Adam Schiff, referring to the infamous 1972 Watergate break-in that Nixon ordered, eventually leading to his resignation.
“What we’re talking about here is the withholding of recognition in that White House meeting (and) the withholding of military aid to an ally at war. This is beyond anything Nixon did.”
 Strong evidence 
Schiff spoke at the close of marathon testimony by nine witnesses over three days — on top of two days of hearings last week — that produced an avalanche of corroboration for the allegations against Trump.
Democrats are expected to prepare formal articles accusing Trump of abusing his presidential powers, bribery and obstruction of justice.
The investigation threatens to make him the third US president to be impeached, although the Republican-controlled Senate would need to convict him to remove him from office.
In bombshell testimony Wednesday, Washington’s envoy to the European Union testified that Trump tied the White House meeting to the investigation of Democratic 2020 frontrunner Joe Biden.
Ambassador Gordon Sondland told the panel Trump ordered him and other diplomats to answer to the president’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, a private citizen with no public office, on Ukraine policy.
The former Soviet state, Democrats have noted, is not in the European Union.
Giuliani’s demands to Ukraine for investigations, Sondland said, “were a quid pro quo for arranging a White House visit for President Zelensky.”
  Ukraine ‘fictions’ 
On Thursday a former top White House Russia expert publicly rejected a Kremlin conspiracy theory pushed by Trump and his Republican allies that Ukraine helped the Democrats in the 2016 election.
The supposed plot, which Trump also asked Zelensky to investigate, was designed to stir havoc in US politics, said Fiona Hill, a senior official on Trump’s National Security Council until July.
“This is a fictional narrative that has been perpetrated and propagated by the Russian security services themselves,” she told lawmakers.
“These fictions are harmful even if they are deployed for purely domestic political purposes.”
Hill testified that she and other specialists involved in Ukraine policy were unnerved by the efforts of Trump, Giuliani and Sondland between March and September to pressure Ukraine.
Sondland, she told the House Intelligence Committee, “was involved in a domestic political errand” at odds with her team’s focus on US national security policy toward Ukraine.
“What we were trying to do was block him from straying into domestic politics,” she said.
“I said to him… I think this is all going to blow up. And here we are,” she told the panel.
 ‘Sick hatred’ 
Trump backers in Congress and the media have increasingly struggled to defend the president, mostly complaining about the process and impugning the motives of a roll call of nonpartisan witnesses rather than offering evidence to counter the accusations against him.
“What is happening is not good for our culture, not good for our nation, and yet the Democrats do not care,” said Republican Representative Jim Jordan.
“The facts are on the president’s side. The truth is on the president’s side.”
White House spokesman Hogan Gidley in a statement urged Democrats to drop the probe, while saying “President Trump wants to have a trial in the Senate because it’s clearly the only chamber where he can expect fairness and receive due process under the Constitution.”
But Schiff delivered a powerful argument at the conclusion of the hearings Thursday that Trump believed he was “beyond accountability.”
“And in my view, there is nothing more dangerous than an unethical president who believes they are above the law,” Schiff said.
On the eve of the vote in the Democratic-controlled chamber, Trump urged Republicans to reject the “BAD DEMOCRAT Disaster Supplemental Bill” and continue negotiating on the emergency package aimed at providing recovery assistance to Americans affected by storms, wildfires and floods.
But in a rebuke of Trump, 34 Republicans joined Democrats in supporting the measure, which cleared the House of Representatives 257-150.
At a Florida rally on Thursday, Trump wrongly said Puerto Rico, a US territory, had already received $91 billion in disaster aid in the wake of deadly 2017 hurricanes that devastated the island.
Puerto Rico has been promised about half that amount and spent just $11 billion, according to a Washington Post fact check.
House Appropriations Committee chair Nita Lowey said Americans “can’t afford to wait any longer” for the relief, which would fund activities like infrastructure development, rural community assistance, and disaster damage mitigation in Puerto Rico and states like California, Florida, North and South Carolina, and Iowa.
“The president’s personal contempt for Puerto Rico must no longer be allowed to stand in the way of critical disaster relief,” she said.
After the vote Trump expressed optimism about a deal.
“We will now work out a bipartisan solution that gets relief for our great States and Farmers,” he tweeted.
The measure heads to the Republican-controlled Senate, where lawmakers have struggled to break the logjam.
The chamber is grappling with whether to add to the disaster package Trump’s latest request of $4.5 billion in emergency border security funding amid what the White House is calling an increasingly “dire” immigration crisis along the southern border.
A 60-year-old woman, Lori Kaye, was killed and three people were wounded when a gunman burst into the synagogue in the southern Californian town of Poway on Saturday and opened fire on the final day of Passover. 
Police identified the shooter as John Earnest, 19, who had posted angry anti-Jewish remarks online just before the shooting. 
Coming exactly six months after a white supremacist shot dead 11 people at a Pittsburgh synagogue, Saturday’s shooting raised new questions about a nationwide rise in anti-Semitism and in hate crimes generally — and about the president’s often controversial response to them.
Ahead of the funeral for Kaye, one of her oldest friends said her killing would not have been in vain if it served as a wake-up call.
“She didn’t die a senseless death,” Roneet Lev told CNN.
“She died advertising the problem we have with anti-Semitism and to bring good to this world.”
Trump on Saturday offered his sympathies to the victims, saying during a rally in Wisconsin: “Our entire nation mourns the loss of life, prays for the wounded, and stands in solidarity with the Jewish community. We forcefully condemn the evil of anti-Semitism and hate, which must be defeated.”
– An ‘atrocious’ act –
Other White House officials underlined those words on Sunday, with National Security Advisor John Bolton telling Fox News that the attack was “atrocious and utterly inexcusable.”
But the shooting came only days after former US vice president Joe Biden, in announcing his plan to seek the presidency in 2020, highlighted Trump’s 2017 remarks about the neo-Nazi march in Charlottesville, Virginia that left a counter-protester dead.
Videos showed some torch-bearing neo-Nazi protesters chanting “Jews will not replace us” as they marched in Charlottesville. 
But Trump said then that “there were very fine people on both sides” of the protest which was against the removal of a Confederate-era statue.
And after Biden on Thursday brought up those words in announcing his candidacy, Trump doubled down, saying he had phrased his 2017 remarks “perfectly.” 
Human rights groups say recent years have seen the biggest rise in anti-Semitic incidents in decades.
Some critics say Trump’s often sharp and racially divisive rhetoric has played a part.
The president has a complicated history. He has forged an exceptionally close relationship to Israel and its current prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. And Trump’s daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner are Jewish.
But critics blame him for stoking racial hatreds and division while making remarks, including criticism of Muslims and Latin migrants, that some white nationalists have taken as comforting or confirming their position. 
A day before the latest attack, a California man deliberately drove into a crowd of people in the town of Sunnyvale, injuring eight. He said he did so because he thought the pedestrians were Muslim, according to police.
– ‘Horrific reminder’ –
The Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles said in a statement that the latest shooting was “a horrific reminder that the flames of hatred still burn strong among some.”
“An attack, on any house of worship, from churches in Sri Lanka and France to synagogues in Jerusalem or Pittsburgh to mosques in Christchurch, are an assault on human dignity and our rights as people of faith to pray to God,” it added.
Two Israelis were among the wounded in the latest attack, an official said Sunday. An Israeli foreign ministry spokesman said an eight-year-old girl and her 31-year-old uncle were originally from Sderot, a town bordering the Gaza Strip. Both were said to be in good condition.
Prime Minister Netanyahu condemned the shooting as “atrocious,” adding in a statement that “the international community must step up the struggle against anti-Semitism.” 
US Vice President Mike Pence joined in the denunciations, tweeting Saturday that “anti-Semitism isn’t just wrong — it’s evil.” 
But he went on to tweak a favorite Trump target, the New York Times, which printed a cartoon in its international edition Thursday showing a blind Trump wearing a Jewish skullcap and being led by a guide dog with Netanyahu’s face.
“We stand with Israel and we condemn anti-Semitism in ALL its forms,” Pence tweeted, “including @nytimes political cartoons.”
The Times issued an online apology for running the cartoon. A note to appear in Monday’s paper says, “The image was offensive, and it was an error of judgment to publish it.”






Trump will be the guest of Queen Elizabeth II and will also hold talks with Prime Minister Theresa May during the trip.
“We do more together than any two nations in the world and we are both safer and more prosperous because of our cooperation,” May said in a statement on the visit.
She said it would be “an opportunity to strengthen our already close relationship in areas such as trade, investment, security and defence, and to discuss how we can build on these ties in the years ahead.”
The pomp associated with state visits will prove particularly controversial in Britain, where House of Commons Speaker John Bercow has already said he does not want the US president to address parliament.
May invited Trump for a state visit in January 2017 when she went to Washington just days after he took office in what was widely seen as an attempt to curry favour, particularly for post-Brexit trade ties.
An online petition to cancel Trump’s state visit reached 1.9 million signatures and that trip was delayed.
On the last day of his visit, June 5, Trump will attend a large military ceremony in Portsmouth in southern England, where ships left for the D-Day landings 75 years ago in the largest seaborne invasion in history.
Downing Street said in a statement that the event would be “one of the greatest British military spectacles in recent history” involving “26 iconic RAF aircraft and at least 11 Royal Navy vessels”.
Trump will then travel to Normandy on June 6 for the main D-Day commemorations, the statement said.
British anti-Trump campaign groups pledged to mobilise in “huge numbers” to protest against the visiting president.
When Trump last visited Britain in July 2018, hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets.
Shaista Aziz from the Stop Trump coalition blamed Trump for a “politics of hate and bigotry” and said it was time for his critics to “stand up and be counted”.
Sabby Dhalu from the Stand Up To Trump group added: “All those that value peace and hope for a better world for the many must take to the streets and say clearly that Donald Trump is not welcome here”.
Hillary Rodham Clinton (L) discusses The Book of Gutsy Women with British historian Mary Beard (R) at Southbank Centre’s Royal Festival Hall in London on November 10, 2019. – At the event they celebrate the women who have inspired them throughout their lives, with the launch of their awaited book The Book of Gutsy Women: Favourite Stories of Courage and Resilience. (Photo by Isabel Infantes / AFP)
The report by parliament’s Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC) has been cleared by the security services but it has not yet been given approval for publication by Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Downing Street office, meaning it will not be released before a Dec. 12 election.
Britain has accused Russia of meddling and trying to interfere in Western elections.
Moscow has repeatedly denied any meddling and says the West is gripped by anti-Russian hysteria.
The ISC was examining allegations of Russian activity aimed at the UK, including in the 2016 referendum on EU membership, when Johnson was a leading campaigner to leave.
Clinton, who has accused Russia of interfering in the 2016 Presidential election, which she lost to Donald Trump, said Britons deserved to see the report before heading to the polls.
“I find it inexplicable that your government will not release a government report about Russian influence. Inexplicable and shameful,’’ she told the BBC.
“Every person, who votes in this country, deserves to see that report before your election happens.’’ 
The emir will meet Trump in Washington on July 9 for talks on regional politics, security and counterterrorism cooperation, according to the announcement, amid a US effort to build pressure on Gulf power Iran.
“The visit will build on the longstanding partnership between the United States and Qatar and further strengthen our already substantial economic and security ties,” the White House said.
Washington has sought to keep up relations with Qatar, an oil-and-gas rich state which has maintained cordial relations with Tehran even as other Gulf Arab states led by Saudi Arabia have cooperated with Trump’s “maximum pressure” campaign against Iran.
For two years Saudi Arabia and its allies the UAE, Bahrain and Egypt have barred Qatari flights from their airports and airspace, banned most Qatari visitors, cut trade and shipping links, and closed their borders, unhappy about Doha’s insistence on maintaining its own approach to regional relations.
Washington was less than enthusiastic about the embargo on Qatar, which hosts two US military bases and the forward headquarters of the US Central Command, which oversees the Pentagon’s operations across the Middle East.
Qatar is also slated to take part in the June 25-26 Bahrain conference on the Trump administration’s Israeli-Palestinian peace initiative, where Washington hopes to raise financial pledges to support the Palestinian economy.
The House Intelligence Committee report published Tuesday accused Trump of subverting national security as he pressured Ukraine for dirt on a Democratic election rival. 
Immediately dismissed by the White House as the product of a “one-sided sham process,” the document forms the basis for the House Judiciary Committee to draw up formal charges, or articles of impeachment, in the coming weeks.
Behind closed doors, the Democratic-led panel voted 13 to 9 on Tuesday, along strict party lines as expected, to officially adopt and issue the report to the committee.
The 300-page document, meant to serve as the basis for the charges against Trump, also mapped out in detail what it called an unparalleled effort of obstruction, including witness intimidation, to stifle the investigation into Trump’s Ukraine scheme.
“The president placed his personal political interests above the national interests of the United States, sought to undermine the integrity of the US presidential election process, and endangered US national security,” said the final report on the Intelligence Committee’s investigation.
“President Trump and his senior officials may see nothing wrong with using the power of the office of the president to pressure a foreign country to help the president’s reelection campaign,” it said.
“However, the Founding Fathers prescribed a remedy for a chief executive who places his personal interests above those of the country: impeachment.”
 ‘The president’s dirty work’ 
The report, the product of a rapid-fire probe sparked by a whistleblower’s complaint in August, mapped out a months-long scheme by Trump, his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani and senior diplomats to pressure Ukraine’s president into investigating Joe Biden, the current favourite to win the Democratic 2020 White House nomination.
Trump also pressured President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate a “conspiracy theory” that it was Ukraine and not Russia, that interfered in the 2016 US election, to benefit the Democrats.
In both cases, the report said, Trump conditioned nearly $400 million in US military aid and a high-profile summit with Zelensky on Kiev opening the investigations.
Democrat Adam Schiff, the head of the House Intelligence Committee, said the White House demands left Ukraine, which is under constant threat from Russia-backed rebels, vulnerable as Trump sought help for his 2020 re-election.
“This report chronicles a scheme by the president of the United States to coerce an ally, Ukraine, that is at war with an adversary, Russia, into doing the president’s dirty work,” he told reporters.
 ‘Ramblings of a basement blogger’ 
Secondly, the report said, Trump actively sought to obstruct the congressional probe, refusing to provide documents to investigators, preventing witnesses from appearing, and threatening some of those who did appear.
“Donald Trump is the first president in the history of the United States to seek to completely obstruct an impeachment inquiry undertaken by the House of Representatives,” it said.
“President Trump’s ongoing effort to thwart Congress’ impeachment power risks doing grave harm to the institution of Congress.”
In London for a NATO summit, Trump again accused the Democrats of playing a political game.
“The impeachment is a hoax. It’s turned out to be a hoax. It’s done for purely political gain,” he said.
His spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham dismissed both the report and Schiff’s investigation. 
“At the end of a one-sided sham process, Chairman Schiff and the Democrats utterly failed to produce any evidence of wrongdoing by President Trump,” she said in a statement.
The report “reads like the ramblings of a basement blogger straining to prove something when there is evidence of nothing.”
 Impeachment before Christmas? 
If, as expected, the articles are passed by the Democratic-led House, the case will go to the Republican-controlled Senate for trial in January.
The Judiciary panel, which begins meeting Wednesday, has set no formal timeframe.
But Democrats aim to hold a full House impeachment vote before the body goes on break for Christmas. 
Schiff said that while the Judiciary Committee meets, his panel could continue investigating other angles of the Ukraine scheme, including whether Trump actually began much earlier to pressure Zelensky’s predecessor Petro Poroshenko for the investigations, and whether some members of Congress were involved.
But he stressed the need to move quickly, accusing Trump of seeking election help not only from Ukraine but Russia and China.
“There is I think the grave risk to the country with waiting until we have every last fact when we already know enough about the president’s misconduct to make a responsible judgement,” Schiff said.
Earlier this year, US President Donald Trump’s administration announced its intention to ditch the agreement, accusing Moscow of repeatedly violating its terms — a charge Russia denied.
“I think the INF Treaty has served us well, but it only works if both parties comply,” new US Defense Secretary Mark Esper said recently.
“The United States will remain in compliance with all of our obligations until August 2nd — and after that point in time, we will continue to pursue what is in our best interest,” he told lawmakers.
Washington formally launched the procedure of leaving the treaty on February 1 — a six-month process.
Russian President Vladimir Putin signed into law a bill suspending Moscow’s participation on July 3.
Unless something changes in the coming days, the mutual withdrawal will spell the end of the deal, which eliminated a range of missiles with ranges of 500 to 5,500 kilometers (310-3,420 miles).
That paved the way for the mothballing of Russian SS-20 missiles and American Pershing missiles deployed in Europe.
Even if European nations have expressed concerns about the consequence of a new arms race, NATO endorsed the US position, saying Russia’s 9M729 missile had violated the INF agreement.
Moscow insists the new projectile has a maximum range of 480 kilometers — within INF parameters.
In the end, the death of the INF Treaty suits Washington just fine, as former defense secretary Ash Carter said in early July.
“From the military point of view, not the political point of view, it’s not so bad,” Carter said at a conference at the Council on Foreign Relations.
“We can make good use of what we call conventional prompt strike.”
Next-generation technology 
The Pentagon is thrilled that it will now be able to modernize its arsenal to counter the mounting might of China, which is looking to assert its military supremacy in Asia.
“Most of China’s inventory is of intermediate range missiles and so we need to make sure we have the capability as well to respond should we — God forbid — get in a fight with them one day,” Esper said.
The United States has pledged not to deploy new nuclear-armed missiles in Europe, but made no such promise on the deployment of conventional weapons.
Advances in technology have allowed for the development of mid-range missiles that are much more precise than those made 30 years ago, explained career diplomat William Courtney, who is now a senior fellow at the nonprofit, nonpartisan Rand Corporation.
“The technology has changed so much that is makes it militarily attractive,” said Courtney, an arms control expert.
For Thomas Mahnken, a professor of strategic studies at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies, the US must now deploy medium-range conventional weapons on its islands in the Pacific and other territory controlled by its allies.
Such a move would help counter China’s rise, especially in the South China Sea, where the People’s Liberation Army has effectively commandeered several disputed islands.
“It is time to turn the tables,” Mahnken said in a commentary published on the specialist website War on the Rocks.
“Such weapons, capable of denying China the use of littoral waters, would be a powerful deterrent to Chinese aggression.”
Such a move seems to have the support of the next chairman of the US joint chiefs of staff, General Mark Milley.
When asked by US senators about the imminent demise of the INF Treaty, he said he supported the deployment of conventional ground-based medium-range missiles in the Indo-Pacific region.
“Do you think those would be helpful?” one senator asked.
“I do,” Milley replied.






“LONDON needs a new mayor ASAP. Khan is a disaster – will only get worse!” Trump said on Twitter, days after labeling the mayor a “stone cold loser.”
Trump attached his latest comment to a retweet about crime in London — where three men were killed in the span of 24 hours — from right-wing columnist Katie Hopkins, who has been widely accused of Islamophobia and in 2015 called migrants “cockroaches.”
The president’s plane had not even touched down in London early this month for the start of a state visit when he tweeted his “loser” comment.
Khan had criticized the red carpet treatment being given Trump for the visit.
Trump said the mayor should “focus on crime in London, not me.” He also made a comment about Khan’s height.
Khan, London’s first Muslim mayor, had led opposition to Trump’s visit, writing a newspaper article in which he compared the US leader to European dictators from the 1930s and 1940s.
At that time, the mayor’s spokesman called Trump’s tweets “childish” and “beneath the president of the United States.”
On a trip to London in July last year, Trump accused Khan of doing “a very bad job on terrorism,” linking immigration to a deadly wave of crime in London.
The feud began when Khan, the son of a bus driver who emigrated from Pakistan in the 1960s, criticized Trump’s travel ban on people from certain Muslim countries.






People wait at the entrance hall, on the eve of the UN Climate Change Conference COP25 at the ‘IFEMA – Feria de Madrid’ exhibition centre, in Madrid, on December 1, 2019. – Spain’s Socialist government offered to host this year’s UN climate conference, known as COP25, from December 2 to December 13, 2019, after the event’s original host Chile withdrew last month due to deadly riots over economic inequality. Spanish authorities expect some 25,000 participants and 1,500 journalists from around the world to attend the two-week gathering in Madrid. (Photo by CRISTINA QUICLER / AFP)
To better understand Washington’s position and the consequences of the US exit, which was initiated by President Donald Trump, AFP interviewed Todd Stern, who participated in the COP21 negotiations in 2015, which resulted in the Paris climate treaty.
Stern, who led former US president Barack Obama’s climate team from 2009 to 2016, is now an expert at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank.
Below is the interview, condensed for clarity:
– Why does the United States still send delegations to COP conferences? –
STERN: “They continue to go and to participate at a technical level in the negotiations, in a quite useful way actually.”
“These are people who have been negotiators for a long time, who have relationships with other negotiators all over the world, who were knowledgeable and trustworthy.”
– Are there any US positions on climate that have held constant in international discussions throughout the years? –
STERN: “The US, whether it was (former US president George W) Bush or Obama, or even during this period of the Trump administration, was obviously not a supporter of the kind of hard bifurcation of the old-fashioned firewall that was embodied by the Kyoto agreement (signed in 1997).”
“We were not going to agree to look to anything which said, here’s a set of legally binding obligations for developed countries, but nothing for developing countries. That was Kyoto… The negotiators could show up to negotiations during the Trump administration and still be free to continue to advance that type of position.”
– Can the Paris accord survive if Donald Trump is re-elected in 2020? –
STERN: “The damage is that you just inevitably have countries who are not going to do as much as they could do, and who are going to have the feeling that, why should we go all out if the US isn’t doing anything?”
“… If Trump is re-elected I think that will continue. And to some extent, the distress will internationally increase in a more than linear way.”
– Is there any hope that the United States will reach its emission-reducing goals set by Obama through action taken by its states and cities? –
STERN: “The effort at the subnational level absolutely cannot make up for what happens at the national level.”
“On the other hand… there are 25 states trying to take strong action. If you did not have progressive governors trying to do good things in those states, the emissions of the US as a national entity would be higher.”






The United States slapped sanctions on its NATO ally in a bid to stop an assault that its own troop withdrawal from the area triggered but Ankara showed no sign of relenting.
Using a dense network of tunnels, berms and trenches, Kurdish fighters from the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) have been mounting a desperate defence of Ras al-Ain.
They launched "a large counterattack against Turkish forces and their Syrian proxies near Ras al-Ain," the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.
Since launching their assault on October 9, Turkish-backed forces have secured more than 100 kilometres (60 miles) of border, but Ras al-Ain, which the Kurds call Siri Kani, has held out.
An AFP correspondent in the area said clashes around the town continued on Tuesday, despite repeated claims by Ankara in recent days that it had captured the area.
Further west, SDF fighters have been battling Turkey's Syrian proxies -- mostly former rebels paid and equipped by Ankara -- around the flashpoint town of Manbij.
US President Donald Trump announced a pullback from the border last week, a move which was widely interpreted as green-lighting a long-planned Turkish invasion.
Politically embattled at home, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan wants to create a 30 kilometre (20 mile) deep buffer zone on the Syrian side of the long border.
 Sanctions 
He wants to keep the SDF at bay -- Ankara considers them a terrorist group because of their links with the main Kurdish insurgency in Turkey -- and create a resettlement area for some of the 3.6 million Syrian refugees currently on Turkish soil.
The offensive has left dozens of civilians dead, mostly on the Kurdish side, and displaced at least 160,000 people.
Aid groups, which have warned of a new humanitarian disaster in Syria's eight-year-old war, have been forced to pull out of the conflict zone, Kurdish authorities said.
Trump, who is campaigning for re-election but faces impeachment, is keen to deliver on a promise of pulling US troops out of the Syria quagmire.
More than 1,000 troops are now being withdrawn from northern Syria and the United States will keep only a residual contingent of some 150 troops in the south at the Al-Tanf base near the borders with Jordan and Iraq.
US Vice President Mike Pence said Monday he would travel to Turkey soon and added that Trump had asked Erdogan to stop the offensive.
In a bid to force Turkey's hand, Washington slapped sanctions on its defence, interior and energy ministers, freezing their US assets and making US transactions with them a crime.
"I am fully prepared to swiftly destroy Turkey's economy if Turkish leaders continue down this dangerous and destructive path," said Trump, who until recently had touted his friendship with Erdogan.
Abandoned by the US, their chief ally in years of battles against the Islamic State group that cost the lives of 11,000 of their fighters, the Kurds turned to Damascus.
Syrian government forces rushed north on Monday as part of a Russian-brokered deal aimed at preventing Turkish-backed forces from moving any deeper into the country.
 Transfers to Iraq? 
European governments, in particular, are worried that the chaos in the area could lead to mass breakouts by thousands of IS fighters detained by Kurdish forces.
They have warned this would lead to a resurgence of the jihadist organisation, only months after the demise of its so-called "caliphate".
It would also increase the risk that some of them might find their way back to Europe to plan and conduct high-profile terror attacks.
"The United States' decision to withdraw from Syria has emboldened jihadists worldwide. The return of the Islamic State is now a given," the Institute for the Study of War said in a brief.
The SDF have warned that their fighters were mobilised to defend against the Turkish advance and not available to fully guard IS prisoners.
That has already resulted in the escape of hundreds of foreign fighters' relatives, although Trump suggested the SDF may have deliberately let them go to gain leverage.
Human Rights Watch warned European countries against attempts to have their detained nationals transferred en masse to Iraq for prosecution.
The watchdog warned it would be illegal for these countries to send nationals to stand trial in a country where they risk execution and where due process is consistently violated.
A European diplomatic source said France was discussing a transfer with Iraqi officials on Tuesday.
The comments came after a Swedish court earlier in the day decided that A$AP Rocky, whose real name is Rakim Mayers, will be tried for an alleged assault next week over a June street brawl.
In addition to the US president, the move is likely to infuriate fans already indignant over Mayers’ three weeks in custody.
“Very disappointed in Prime Minister Stefan Lofven for being unable to act. Sweden has let our African American Community down in the United States,” Trump tweeted, adding: “Give A$AP Rocky his FREEDOM.”
The case has seen repeated attempts at intervention by Trump, whose narrow path to reelection in 2020 is in part being made all the harder due to deep unpopularity among black voters.
Trump has already suggested paying bail for Mayers, despite Sweden not having bail in its justice system.
And he has repeatedly attempted to persuade Lofven to intervene, despite the premier’s reminder that the courts are independent from political leaders in Sweden — as they are in the United States.
The 30-year-old rapper was arrested on July 3 along with three other people, following the brawl in Stockholm on June 30. One of them, the rapper’s bodyguard, was later released.
Prosecutor Daniel Suneson said in a statement Thursday morning that he was pressing charges “against the three suspects for assault, because in my judgement what has happened amounts to a crime, despite the objections about self-defense and provocations.”
Part of the fight was captured in an amateur video published by US celebrity news outlet TMZ. The rapper later published videos of his own to Instagram purporting to show the lead-up to the fight.
Mayers has said he was acting in self-defense and responding to harassment by the plaintiff, a claim with which Trump agreed.
“I watched the tapes of A$AP Rocky, and he was being followed and harassed by troublemakers. Treat Americans fairly!” Trump said.
But Suneson said he has “more material to consider than what has been available on the internet.”
Trump’s latest tweets used language echoing complaints made against other traditional US allies that the US president has pulled into tense disputes over trade and military cooperation.
“We do so much for Sweden but it doesn’t seem to work the other way around. Sweden should focus on its real crime problem!” Trump said.
Heading to trial 
According to the charge document filed with the Stockholm District Court, the evidence includes surveillance footage, witness testimony and text conversations that the prosecutor says prove there was no need for self-defense and that a bottle was used as a weapon in the alleged assault.
Magnus Stromberg, the plaintiff’s lawyer, told AFP his client suffered injuries that were “serious, nasty and he has been in a lot of pain.”
On July 5 the court ordered Mayers kept in custody pending investigation as he was considered a “flight risk.”
Suneson’s decision to press charges means the rapper can be kept in custody until his trial next week.
The trial is scheduled to take place over three days, starting on July 30.
Assault carries a maximum penalty of two years in jail in Sweden.
Mayers’ lawyer Slobodan Jovicic told reporters the decision was “expected” and his client maintains his innocence.
 #FreeRocky 
The musician, who had his breakthrough in 2011 with the release of the mixtape “Live. Love. A$AP”, was on a European tour and has already had to cancel over a dozen shows.
Since his arrest, fans, fellow artists and US Congress members have campaigned his release.
An online petition called #JusticeForRocky has garnered more than 620,000 signatures. The rapper’s detention has also led to accusations of racism by the Swedish justice system.
In May of last year, fellow rapper G-Eazy was charged with violence against a public servant, resisting arrest and possession of narcotics in Sweden, but was released after pleading guilty and fined 80 000 kronor (around $8,500 or 7,600 euros) after a day and a half in custody.
In an Instagram post G-Eazy, who is white, said the difference between his and A$AP Rocky’s treatment was a sign of “white privilege” and “racism.”
Responding to a question about whether law enforcement’s handling of the case indicated racism, Mayer’s lawyer Jovicic told reporters Thursday that he thought Sweden was “not a racist society.”






Pence’s spokesman said they decided to stay at the Trump International Golf Links in Doonbeg at the “suggestion” of the president, rather than using a Dublin hotel, which would have likely been much cheaper, transportation-wise.
Democrat Oversight Committee Chairman Elijah Cummings said it appeared that Trump was profiting personally on the vice president’s trip, given all the government funds spent at the resort to house his sizable entourage.
“The committee does not believe that US taxpayer funds should be used to personally enrich President Trump, his family, and his companies,” Cummings said in a statement. 
Cummings said the bill for the trip could be “significant,” given the estimated $3.6 million of taxpayer money spent when Trump stayed at the Doonbeg resort in June.
It was the second probe opened in the past two weeks of the White House’s official use of the president’s properties.
On August 28, the House Judiciary Committee announced it would investigate Trump’s stated plan to use his Trump National Doral Miami golf club to host the G7 summit next year.
Lawmakers have repeatedly alleged that the Trump Organization, the billionaire president’s real estate group, is reaping significant profits from his time in the White House.
They say he appears to be violating the US Constitution’s ban on a president enriching himself from his office, though so far no court has supported the allegation.
The White House denied Pence was ordered by Trump to stay at Doonbeg.
“I don’t think it was a request, like a command. … I think that it was a suggestion,” Pence spokesman Mark Short said earlier this week.
“Well, you should stay at my place,” Trump said, according to Short.
On Wednesday, however, Trump denied it was his idea.
“We never spoke about it,” Trump said.
“I had no involvement, other than it’s a great place,” he said, noting that one of Pence’s ancestors came from the area.
Democratic presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren called on the State Department to explain how Pence’s trip was planned. 
Pence’s trip “is just another example of this admin’s open corruption & how it enriches the president,” she said in a tweet.
A military court in California cleared Edward Gallagher, 40, Tuesday of the murder of a teenage Islamic State prisoner in 2017 in Iraq as well as other serious charges related to the case.
Gallagher, a Navy chief petty officer, was found guilty only of posing with the slain fighter’s body in a group picture with other SEALs, a charge that carries a much lighter sentence.
Trump, who had previously suggested he might pardon Gallagher if he were convicted, hailed the verdict in a tweet.
“Congratulations to Navy Seal Eddie Gallagher, his wonderful wife Andrea, and his entire family. You have been through much together. Glad I could help!” he wrote.
Gallagher, who spent nine months in the brig at a naval base pending the court martial, was expected to walk free on the basis of time served.
Spurred on by his wife, a group of lawmakers had lobbied for his release in an initiative publicized by the conservative Fox News network.
The prosecution’s case was dealt a major blow when a witness said that it was he, not Gallagher, who had put an end to the captive IS militant’s life.
Corey Scott, a first class petty officer, testified that while he had seen Gallagher stab the wounded fighter in the neck in May 2017, he had killed the boy afterwards.
He testified that he covered the victim’s breathing tube with his thumb and then watched him die.
Scott said he did so to spare the boy — who prosecutors say was about 15 years old — from suffering or being tortured by Iraqi forces.
Scott, who was given immunity from prosecution, acknowledged during questioning that he made the revelation to spare Gallagher, who is married and has children, from going to prison.
Prosecutors argued Scott’s version of events was a fabrication and that he was lying to protect Gallagher.






(FILES): US President Donald Trump delivers remarks in the Roosevelt Room at the White House on November 15, 2019 in Washington, DC.  Zach Gibson/Getty Images/AFP
The setback comes during one of the most fraught weeks in Trump’s presidency as the House of Representatives staged the probe’s first public hearings.
It also follows Trump’s three visits to the state to stump for Republican challenger Eddie Rispone, a Louisiana businessman.
US media declared incumbent Governor John Bel Edwards the winner by a narrow margin, with 51.3 percent of the vote. Rispone ended the night with 48.7 percent, according to the New York Times.
For Trump, who won Louisiana by 20 percentage points in 2016, Rispone’s defeat marks an embarrassing drubbing, especially for a president who has frequently boasted that his star power is enough to propel Republicans to victory around the country.
A similar campaign on behalf of Kentucky’s Republican Governor Matt Bevin flopped last week, with Democrat Andy Beshear winning after a nail-biting contest.
Edwards said in his victory speech that “our shared love for Louisiana is always more important than the partisan differences that sometimes divide us.” 
“And as for the president: God bless his heart,” he said, drawing cheers and laughter.
Trump, who is battling impeachment in Congress, described the contest in Louisiana as a proxy for the wider Democrat-Republican struggle ahead of the 2020 presidential election.
“If you want to defend our values, our jobs, and your freedom, then you need to replace radical liberal John Edwards,” he said.
In a speech in Bossier City last Thursday, Trump railed against his Democratic opponents as “maniacs” and a “bunch of mad people,” stating that Louisiana is “not going to let them destroy our country and rob your children of their future.”
On Saturday evening, Rispone conceded the governor’s race, telling a crowd of supporters: “We have nothing to be ashamed of.”
As for Trump, he said: “That man loves America and he loves Louisiana. He came down here three times specifically to come and help us.”
Polls during the final days of the gubernatorial campaign showed Edwards, a moderate Democrat, poised for a narrow win, despite Louisiana being a solidly conservative state.






WASHINGTON, DC – OCTOBER 27: President Donald Trump attends Game Five of the 2019 World Series between the Houston Astros and the Washington Nationals at Nationals Park on October 27, 2019 in Washington, DC.   Rob Carr/Getty Images/AFP
Trump attended the tie-breaking game five of the series on the day his administration announced the death, long-sought by the Pentagon, of Islamic State group leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.
After the game’s third inning, the stadium’s video display showed military members in attendance — but then quickly cut to Trump.
The cheering crowd immediately switched to loud and sustained boos.
When the display cut back to the soldiers, the booing died down, but fans soon took up a chorus of “Lock him up!” — a play on the chant frequently heard at pro-Trump rallies against Hilary Clinton, but now often used against the president.
Demonstrators sitting behind the home plate also unfurled “veterans for impeachment” banners during the game, in reference to the House of Representatives investigation into whether Trump abused power by withholding military aid to Ukraine.
Trump has been on the back foot for weeks as the Democrats push ahead with their impeachment inquiries, and as he faces the widespread and bipartisan condemnation of his Syria policy.
It was an unusual excursion for the president and first lady — who arrived earlier at the Nationals Stadium, and sat in a suite behind home plate — in liberal-majority Washington.
Prior to the Nationals-Astros showdown, Washington manager Dave Martinez said he hoped Trump “enjoys the game.”
When asked if the team was excited about his arrival, Martinez replied, “We haven’t really talked about it. We’re focused on playing baseball.”
The ceremonial first pitch was thrown out by Spanish-American celebrity chef Jose Andres, a vocal critic of Trump’s controversial immigration policies and Puerto Rico hurricane relief efforts.
President Donald Trump effectively barred Huawei from the US market on Wednesday and added it to a list which would restrict US sales to the firm amid an escalating trade war with Beijing.
“We have already been preparing for this,” Huawei founder and CEO Ren Zhengfei told a group of Japanese journalists Saturday in his first interview since Trump’s move.
Ren said Huawei would continue to develop its own components to reduce its dependence on outside suppliers.
Huawei is a rapidly expanding leader in 5G technology but remains dependent on foreign suppliers.
It buys about $67 billion worth of components each year, including about $11 billion from US suppliers, according to The Nikkei business daily.
The usually elusive Ren, 74, has come out of the shadows in recent months in the face of increasing pressure on his company.
Ren’s army background and Huawei’s opaque culture have fuelled suspicions in some countries that the firm has links with the Chinese military and intelligence services.
Huawei is also the target of an intense campaign by Washington, which has been trying to persuade allies not to allow China a role in building next-generation 5G mobile networks. 
US government agencies are already banned from buying equipment from Huawei.
“We have not done anything which violates the law,” Ren said, adding the US measures would have a limited impact.
“It is expected that Huawei’s growth may slow, but only slightly,” he said, according to The Nikkei.
A former army technician, Ren founded Huawei in 1987 with only $5,000, according to company lore. 
Huawei now claims to have nearly 190,000 employees, operates in 170 countries, and reported revenue of more than $100 billion in 2018.
Ren said his company would not yield to pressure from Washington.
“We will not change our management at the request of the US or accept monitoring, as  ZTE has done,” he said, as quoted by The Nikkei, referring to fellow Chinese telecoms giant ZTE which was also targeted by Washington.
ZTE came close to collapse last year after US firms were banned from selling it vital components over its continued dealings with Iran and North Korea.
Trump later reversed the decision and in return, ZTE had to pay a $1 billion fine and accept monitoring by the US Commerce Department.
The Sierra Club counted 50 closures, along with 51 announcements of closure, since Trump was sworn into office in January 2017. 
The numbers are distinct because it sometimes takes years between an announcement and the actual shuttering.
This week, the operators of two coal plants, one in Florida and the other in Utah, announced they would shut their doors within the next few years. 
In total, 289 have closed since 2010, comprising 40 percent of the US’s coal power capacity, while an additional 241 plants remain open.
A coal power plant that began running in Alaska a few weeks ago is the only new installation to open since Trump took office, the non-profit said.
“We’re seeing a rush to the exit door from the coal industry and utilities, because the economics don’t work out,” the Sierra Club’s Jonathan Levenshus told AFP.
Despite the president’s pro-coal rhetoric, “what the Trump administration is offering is false promises,” he added.
Since the fracking boom began around a decade ago, coal has become more expensive to exploit than natural gas, which is experiencing strong growth in the United States and increasingly replacing coal.
By this summer, coal is on course to provide only 25 percent of the US energy mix from its share of 35 percent in 2015.
Meanwhile, natural gas will account for 40 percent of the power supply, according to an analysis published Thursday by the Energy Information Administration (EIA). 
US coal production has fallen by a third since its peak in 2008, according to official energy statistics, and more than half of all mines have closed since that time.






Australia’s hard-line immigration policies have echoes of White nationalism and the newly elected Brazilian administration has analysts making connections to White nationalism because of the president’s statements and actions relating to Brazilians of African descent and Indians. 
Nationalism and populism in non-European (or its offshoots) setting have strong European roots.  Present day Israel was created by Britain with some support from France, who controlled that territory.  
India’s Hindu nationalism is a direct result of Britain dislodging the Muslim kingdoms that existed when it invaded and created that state giving the Hindu majority the opportunity to gain political ascendancy in democratic elections after independence. China which has taken nationalistic postures is largely trying to make up for the humiliation from European powers and Japan it under went in the 19th and early 20th centuries as that country has become communist in name only, largely to keep its political (cadres) party in control. 
The list goes on in many other countries created by Europe which dislodged established powers prior to colonisation, often to make governing those territories easier particularly when such powers were minorities that had ruled over ethnical or religious majorities.  

Read More: Nationalism, populism- European legacy and the new normal

When the latter were ushered into power through elections they embraced nationalism based on their ethnic and/or religious constituents. This was notably the case of Zimbabwe where the Ndebele who ruled much that country prior to the arrival of the British and were dislodged from power giving way to the much larger Shona ethnic group.
An interesting factor is the irony, verging on the perverse of this trend. Nationalism and populism has been most pronounced in Poland, Hungary and Italy and yet both Poland and Hungary have seen large numbers of their citizen’s move to other EU countries and have and continue to receive huge flows of funds from the EU largely from northern EU states. Italy has also received large sums from the EU.  
Britain’s economy which outperformed other EU states coming out of the recent great recession benefited a lot from the influx of workers from Eastern Europe.  There are dire predictions that the loss of these workers after Brexit will have significant negative repercussions on services such as the National Health Service (NHS).  
Even as Britain leaves the EU, English is becoming the most common language used in EU forums.  In the US the prime mover of nationalism. 
Trump is the most un-American President in recent history in terms of family connections and use of (undocumented)foreign workers in his businesses. After centuries of persecution and finally settling in their historical homeland, the current Israeli government is doing everything to deny the Palestinians their own state as agreed in peace settlements and emasculating Palestinian governments.  
China which defeated the Nationalists is now using nationalism to mobilise its citizens. India, a state created by the British from largely Muslim controlled kingdoms has a Hindu nationalist party that is hostile to the aspirations of its Muslim minority.
The new normal relates to major political and economic shifts.  After centuries a new normal has seen what many consider as unpalatable even though the process started long ago. The European tribe feels threatened at home and in its offshoots by immigration from people who are not like them racially, culturally and religiously. This anxiety has been crudely amplified by leaders like Trump who have painted a picture of marauding aliens, crudely referring to “Mexican rapist… shithole countries”, the latter in his description of African countries. He is not averse to immigration if they come from Norway and other European countries. Hungarian and Polish leaders have stressed the fact that Europe’s “Christian heritage” is under siege. 
Beneath this anxiety on immigration there are underlying themes that are often not mentioned. These include the low birth rate of Whites in Europe and its offshoots, the loss of absolute and relative economic, political and technological power that Europe has enjoyed for the last five hundred years. 
The incomes of the working and middle classes have been stagnant in the last few decades as those of captains of industry have risen exponentially largely because of off-shoring to China and other low cost non-European/American countries, as industrial production and jobs have moved away to those countries. In the new normal technological and economic development outside Europe, notable in Asia have out-paced that in Europe and its offshoots.
The new normal started quite some time ago, early in the 20th century. In 1905 Japan defeated Russia a “major European power” in a war sending shockwaves around the world.  This process was repeated at the beginning of the Second World War when Japan rapidly dislodged Britain and America in Southeast Asia. 
Europe gave up most of its colonies in Africa and Asia.  Britain and France became middle level powers even as they have held on to their security council seats at the UN. The break-up of the Soviet Union left the US as the only superpower even as this European offshoot saw its relative economic ascendancy diminish on the economic front as the non-European power, China, has surged on.  
In conclusion, Professor Goodwin prognosis should be adhered to with some caveats. Liberals need to listen and in the medium to short run give some to the concerns of their tribes on culture and immigration.  
In the long run they should try to win the hearts and minds of citizens by arguing that in the globalised world tribalism is not the way forward, and organisations like the EU will give Europe more clout and benefits While nationalists have a strong case in Europe, the same cannot be said of its offshoots because with the exception of the original inhabitants, such as American Indians, Aborigines in Australia and Africans in South Africa, all other citizens are immigrants so why should people of European descent continue to get preferential treatment. The US will have to accept the inevitable that it is a polyglot nation where Whites will, in the next fifty years be a minority majority group. 
The economy does matter and the Brookings Institute paper lists studies on how to improve stagnant incomes of workers which are antidotes to populism. Business leaders have a significant role to play, investing at home rather than their pre-occupation with off-shoring to maximise profits. That together with more equitable distribution of the economic benefits of growth through progressive taxation and other measures will avoid the wage stagnation which has largely fuelled populism.    
While the world has to accept that China and India are major players that does not warrant them riding roughshod over neighbours or minorities. Interestingly there is room for nationalism for business leaders and among some of the poorest states to shore them up and Europe and America must do all they can to assist these countries which will reduce the need for emigration fuelling populism in Europe, America and other rich countries.
Nationalism and populism are the legacy of Europe, currently deeply rooted in the continent but also from a historical perspective.  The continent initiated globalisation which is the root cause of this phenomenon. 
Interestingly, the cheer leader of this movement, Donald Trump does not have the intellectual capability or character for the challenge as demonstrated in a number of policies.
He is hostile to the EU instead of nurturing the cohesion that America and Europe need politically, economically and militarily for the challenges ahead. And he and his ally, Steve Bannon have stoked nationalism and populism in Europe with strong support for nationalist and populist regimes in Poland and Hungary. 
He withdrew from the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) that Obama, the chess player had negotiated which would have resulted in two major things, namely, cleverly shifting production and the supply chain from China and introducing measures relating to environmental, labour standards etc, that improve the relative competitive position of the US and also Europe. He has reduced and threatened to reduce aid to poor countries and generally neglected them when these are exactly the kind of support that minimise emigration from those countries. 
He has given total support to the hawkish Israeli government making it very difficult for Palestinians to engage in a peace process. He has given total support to the Saudi government’s war in Yemen and other nefarious activities of that regime, pulled out of the Iran agreement and is currently on the verge of war with that country, all actions that are likely to stoke tension in the Middle East that could result in conflict and increased emigration from the region.
As I finish this paper I have just watched Trump making his re-election speech and realised the huge challenge Liberals face. Trump on stage, was the true demagogue with his lies, half-truths and exaggerations sounding emotional as the baying crowd like it was almost a hundred years ago in Germany.  
Liberals tend to use logic and dry statistics which do not have the electricity that demagogues seem to generate even as they lead the sheep to their slaughter.
Concluded
J Boima Rogers is Principal Consultant at Media and Event Management Oxford (MEMO) 
The commander-in-chief and erstwhile Manhattan showman plans to tear up another norm, critics say, by hijacking traditionally non-partisan Independence Day as he seeks re-election.
“Our July 4th Salute to America at the Lincoln Memorial is looking to be really big. It will be the show of a lifetime!,” Trump tweeted Wednesday.
“We have the greatest economy anywhere in the world. We have the greatest military anywhere in the world. Not bad!” he added.
Vice President Mike Pence also chimed in via Twitter. “The #SalutetoAmerica at Lincoln Memorial tomorrow [Thursday] night will be a great show and an amazing display of our country’s wonderful military!” he wrote.
Usually, said Rich Hanley, a media and popular culture expert at Quinnipiac University, July 4 works as a kind of national ceasefire.
“It’s a day when people can set aside their polarized differences … and raise the flag without entering into political discussions,” he said. “Then on the 5th they go back to normal.”
But this year, the familiar script is being given a rewrite.
At around 6:30 pm (2230 GMT), Trump will take to the hallowed steps of the Lincoln Memorial for an unprecedented “Salute to America” event that will include a televised address, military hardware and a giant fireworks display. The nation’s top military brass will have a front row seat.
The modified Boeing 747 used as Air Force One will fly over, as will noisy, powerful warplanes expected to include F-35s, and jets from the Navy’s Blue Angels air show team.
A handful of tanks and Bradley Fighting Vehicles are stationed near the Lincoln Memorial, although the enormous M1 Abrams tanks are not expected to roll, as their tracks would likely tear up city streets.
Vice President Mike Pence tweeted that it will be “a great show and an amazing display of our country’s wonderful military!”
The center of attention, however, will not be the weapons. Or the nearly million dollars’ worth of fireworks that are in the works, a donation from two big manufacturers.
Rather, it will be Trump.
“Your favorite President, me!” he tweeted when announcing the show.
 Non-partisan no more 
July 4 is a unique holiday in that it is hyper-patriotic but free from usual Republican-Democratic fighting and it is far more civic than military in nature.
Inserting such a high-profile presidential address into the festivities risks changing that, given that the polarizing Trump is supported by just over 40 percent of the country ahead of his 2020 reelection bid and fervently opposed by much of the remaining electorate.
Trump’s “ego is so large that he’s holding this Fourth of July campaign rally in a desperate cry for attention, and everyone knows it,” Senator Chuck Schumer wrote on Twitter.
Counter-protesters plan to bring their own kind of political fireworks to the National Mall, the grassy park running two miles (three kilometers) from the Lincoln Memorial to the Capitol.
Leftist organization Code Pink is deploying its “Baby Trump” blimp, a large inflated doll depicting the president in diapers.
But the National Park Service denied permission to fill the inflatable with helium, so the depiction of a cranky, infantile Trump will stay on the ground.
On Wednesday, one Code Pink activist held a sign near an armored vehicle that read “Tanks But No Tanks,” and #BoycottTrumps4thOfJuly was trending on Twitter in the US.
Many are up in arms about what all this is going to cost. The White House has refused to say so far.
“Instead of addressing something like veteran homelessness, he’s spending it on boosting his ego with a parade that’s fundamentally about him,” said Democratic presidential hopeful Julian Castro.
“What a waste of money.”
 Salesman, showman, president 
A former reality TV star, Trump is tapping his considerable showmanship skills ahead of the event.
Just being up on the Lincoln Memorial will guarantee unbeatable pictures.
The statue honoring civil war president Abraham Lincoln is famous as the location for Martin Luther King Jr’s epic 1963 “I have a dream” speech.
But Trump’s inspiration appears to be taken less from that civil rights cry than a Bastille Day military parade he attended in 2017 as a guest of French President Emmanuel Macron.
So impressed was Trump that he came up with the idea of putting on a major extravaganza for Veteran’s Day, which is marked on November 11. But an outcry over the almost $100 million price tag meant it had to be scrapped.
Now he’ll get a scaled-back version.
As he prepared for the big day Trump downplayed the issue of cost.
“The cost of our great Salute to America tomorrow will be very little compared to what it is worth,” Trump wrote.
“We own the planes, we have the pilots, the airport is right next door (Andrews), all we need is the fuel. We own the tanks and all. Fireworks are donated by two of the greats. Nice!
It was the second straight day of a very public war of words between Trump and the speaker of the House of Representatives, who earlier questioned the president’s mental fitness for office and expressed hope that those close to Trump would stage an intervention “for the good of the country.”
Trump responded by branding Pelosi “crazy Nancy,” in what appeared to be the first time he ascribed a pejorative nickname to the woman who is his congressional nemesis.
The back-and-forth attacks are highlighting the bitter feud that has swelled since the release last month of the special counsel’s report on Russian interference in the 2016 US election.
According to Pelosi, Trump’s strategy is to get his opponents to commit themselves to impeachment — a process that would almost certainly pass in the House, and then fail in the Republican-controlled Senate, ultimately energizing Trump’s core voters during his re-election bid.
“The White House is just crying out for impeachment,” she told journalists.
Trump is “disappointed” that the Democrats are holding off for now, Pelosi said, even as they intensify congressional investigations into the president’s links to Russia and his alleged obstruction of justice — probes that Trump is trying to block.
“It may take us to a place that is unavoidable in terms of impeachment or not, but we’re not at that place,” she said.
Under pressure from the congressional probes, Trump on Thursday ordered the US intelligence community to “fully cooperate” with an investigation into what he has termed “spying” on his 2016 election campaign.
According to Trump, court-approved surveillance of his campaign’s links to Russians amounted to “spying.” He has even called the probe treason and indicated he would like to see criminal charges brought against his investigators.
Pelosi, who repeated her charge that Trump was engaged in a “cover-up,” goaded the president, declaring that she was praying for him and that she wished “his family or his staff or his administration would have an intervention for the good of the country.”
‘Extremely stable genius’
Trump responded with demeaning accusations, branding her “crazy Nancy” and questioning her mental fitness.
“She’s not the same person,” he told reporters at the White House during a prolonged rant. “She’s lost it.”
Trump watched Pelosi during their meeting “and she was all crazy with the hands and everything,” he said, waving his arms around for emphasis. “She is a mess.”
The remarks came in a week of legal setbacks for Trump, including a federal judge’s ruling that a House subpoena of Trump financial records was lawful.
“I think what really got to him was these court cases and the fact that the House Democratic caucus is not on a path to impeachment, and that’s where he wants us to be,” Pelosi said Thursday.
A day earlier Pelosi and other Democrats came to the White House to discuss infrastructure, only to have the president abruptly cancel the talks and proclaim there could be no progress on policy issues until Democrats end their “phony” investigations.
Pelosi said Trump threw a “temper tantrum” at the meeting, pounded his fists on the table and then stormed out.
Trump vehemently disputed the account, and during his press event Thursday took the unusual step of calling separately on five aides to defend their boss’s behavior.
“Very calm,” said Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president. “They said you were fuming, temper tantrum, rage. It’s a lie.”
The president went so far as to praise himself as “an extremely stable genius,” a line that swiftly boomeranged back at Trump in the form of a withering Pelosi tweet.
“When the ‘extremely stable genius’ starts acting more presidential, I’ll be happy to work with him on infrastructure, trade and other issues,” she posted on Twitter.
Impeachment indecision
Several Democratic lawmakers and 2020 presidential contenders are eager to move forward with impeachment proceedings, citing what they say is Trump’s obstruction of justice and refusal to respect congressional oversight powers.
But there are concerns among senior Democrats that the impeachment tactic could backfire, energizing Trump’s base ahead of the 2020 election.
Asked directly if he was seeking that outcome, Trump was cautious.
“I don’t think anybody wants to be impeached,” he said, while expressing confidence that American voters would see the process as “a bad thing for our country.”
Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, who is close to Trump, said Democrats had hoped the Mueller report would sink the president and that they still haven’t given up.
“After two years of a political rectal exam, nobody’s been looked at more than Trump. They found nothing,” Graham told Fox News late Wednesday.
Democrats insisting on impeachment “is just political revenge, (and) it’s going to blow up in their face.”






He also warned he was watching it “very closely’’, ahead of the 2020 election.
Trump, in a series of early posts on Twitter, also slammed Google’s Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai, and again raised questions about the search engine’s work with China, in spite his administration’s earlier comments that any such work was limited.
“We go to great lengths to build our products and enforce our policies in ways that don’t take political leanings into account,” a Google spokesperson said in email statement.
Trump, who is seeking re-election in 2020, has repeatedly slammed Google and a host of other technology companies, echoing conservative critics’ claims of unfair treatment and raising the specter of regulation.
Lawmakers have also raised the possibility of regulating the industry, in part over security and misinformation concerns following the 2016 election, and findings of Russian interference in that vote that relied heavily on leveraging technology and social media.
Trump on Tuesday accused Google of “very illegal” acts but offered no evidence, and no formal charges have been announced.
“Distorting results for political purposes would harm our business and go against our mission of providing helpful content to all of our users,” the spokesperson added.
Representatives for the White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on what steps the administration was taking toward the company.
Trump and Google’s Pichai had met at the White House in June.
Following the meeting, U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said they both had been assured that any of Google’s work with China was “very, very limited.”
Days later, Trump warned Google with a post on Twitter.
Trump also hinted that any conflict would be waged with air strikes, saying there would be no US boots on the ground.His remarks came after Iranian President Hassan Rouhani tried to rein in the crisis between the two archfoes, saying that Iran “never seeks war” with the United States.
Washington has ratcheted up crippling economic sanctions on Tehran after the Islamic republic’s forces shot down an unmanned US drone in the Gulf region, following a series of attacks on tankers that Washington blamed on Iran.
Trump says he called off an air strike against Iranian targets at the last minute last week, having decided the expected death toll of 100 would have been a disproportionate response. 
In an interview on Fox Business Network, Trump was asked if America is going to go to war with Iran.
“Well, I hope we don’t but we’re in a very strong position if something should happen. We’re in a very strong position,” Trump said, a day after he warned that any further military action by Iran would result in an “overwhelming” US response and could result in “obliteration.”
“It wouldn’t last very long, I can tell you that. And I’m not talking boots on the ground,” 
Talking later with reporters outside the White House, Trump said Iran’s leaders would be “selfish and … stupid” to reject cutting a new deal with his administration to replace the 2015 nuclear accord made under his predecessor Barack Obama, which Trump himself walked out of.
That step is widely seen as the genesis of steadily declining relations between the two countries over the past year.
“They have a country that’s in economic distress. It’s an economic disaster right now, they can solve it quickly or in 10 years from now,” he said. “I have all the time in the world. In the meantime, they have very strong sanctions.”
In the current crisis with Iran, Trump’s tone has vacillated between tough and conciliatory — talking up US military might and saying all options are on the table, or offering Tehran talks on renegotiating a multi-party nuclear deal.
‘Decades of turmoil’ 
Iran has responded by saying it will “resolutely” abandon more commitments under the nuclear deal with world powers on July 7.
But Iran’s own stance also has been mixed: while the country’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei vowed his country would remain unbowed by US “insults,” Rouhani adopted a more conciliatory approach.
“Iran has no interest to increase tension in the region and it never seeks war with any country, including (the) US,” the president said, quoted by state news agency IRNA.
The high-stakes showdown in the Gulf between the longtime rivals has triggered a flurry of diplomatic activity as world leaders scramble to prevent a war that would massively disrupt oil flows and shake the global economy.
Rouhani spoke earlier by phone with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron and told him Iran has “always been committed to regional peace and stability and will make efforts in this respect.”
Iran’s ambassador to the UN, Majid Takht Ravanchi, told the Security Council Wednesday that Tehran alone cannot save the nuclear deal.
“Iran alone cannot, shall not and will not take all of the burdens anymore to preserve the JCPOA,” he said, referring to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action as the deal is formally known. 
Iran has said that as of June 27, it will have more than the 300 kilos (660 pounds) of enriched uranium that it was allowed to have under the deal, the result of 12 years of tough diplomatic negotiations.
Iraqi President Barham Saleh added his voice to the warnings against a fresh regional conflict that would have serious repercussions for his own war-torn country.
“We have had four decades of challenge and turmoil. We do not want to be embroiled in another war,” he said. “We cannot afford our country to be dragged into conflict.”






The president has been curious about the area's natural resources and geopolitical relevance, the paper reported.
Greenland is a self-governing region of Denmark, which colonized the 772,000 square-mile (two-million square kilometer) island in the 18th century, and is home to nearly 57,000 people, most of whom belong to the indigenous Inuit community.
There was no official comment from the White House, and the Danish embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to AFP's request for comment.
Some Trump advisors say acquiring Greenland, which is northeast of Canada, could be good for the US, while others called it only a "fleeting fascination" from the president, The Wall Street Journal said.
Others outside the White House say Trump's interest could be a desire to secure a legacy achievement, the paper reported, and advisors wondered about the potential for research or greater military clout for the US.
The US's northernmost military base, Thule Air Base, has been located on Greenland for decades.
But Greenland doesn't quite live up to its lush name -- 85 percent of the island is covered by a 1.9-mile-thick (three-kilometer) ice sheet that contains 10 percent of the world's freshwater.
The world's largest island has suffered from climate change, scientists say, becoming a giant melting icicle that threatens to submerge the world's coastal areas one day.
July saw unprecedented melting of the Greenland ice sheet, with 12 billion tonnes of ice flowing into the sea.
Trump, who in 2017 withdrew the US from the Paris Climate Agreement to cap global warming levels, is reportedly set to visit Copenhagen in September.
This isn't the first time the president has expressed interest in foreign properties -- he has said North Korea's "great beaches" would make ideal locations for condos.
During a hurricane briefing, Trump asked if it were possible to disrupt hurricanes forming off the coast of Africa by dropping a nuclear bomb in the eye of the storm, the news site wrote.
According to an anonymous source, the news website said that meeting attendees left the briefing thinking, “What do we do with this?”
Axios did not say when this conversation took place.
It is reportedly not the first time the president made such a suggestion. In 2017, Trump asked a senior official whether the administration should bomb hurricanes to prevent them making landfall.
Trump did not specify in this conversation that nuclear bombs be used.
The White House declined to comment, but Axios quoted a senior administration official as saying Trump’s “objective is not bad.”
Trump’s idea is not new. The suggestion was originally made by a government scientist in the 1950s, under President Dwight Eisenhower.
The idea continues to pop up, even though scientists agree it would not work. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has a page dedicated to the concept.
“During each hurricane season, there always appear suggestions that one should simply use nuclear weapons to try and destroy the storms,” the NOAA said.
Not only would a bomb not alter a storm, the winds would quickly spread radioactive fallout over nearby land, NOAA added.
“Needless to say, this is not a good idea,” said NOAA.
The US is regularly pummeled by hurricanes. In 2017 one named Harvey became the strongest hurricane to make landfall in 12 years.
Twitter lit up with reactions to Trump’s suggestion, with many users appearing shocked.
“Not ‘The Onion,'” one user wrote, referring to the satirical news publication known for outlandish headlines.
“What could possibly go wrong?” asked another.
Many tweets also included the hashtag #ThatsHowTheApocalypseStarted.
Democratic presidential hopeful Kamala Harris weighed in as well, tweeting, “Dude’s gotta go.”
South Korea, a major US ally, received its first two F-35A jets — one of the world’s most advanced military aircraft — in March under a $7 billion contract signed in 2014.
The country plans to deploy 40 of the American jets by the end of 2021, with around a quarter of those expected to be operational this year.
South Korean authorities “know well that the bringing-in of the Fighters would prove to be an extremely dangerous action which will trigger our reaction,” an unnamed researcher at the Institute for American Studies of North Korea’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement carried by state news agency KCNA.
“We… have no other choice but to develop and test the special armaments to completely destroy the lethal weapons reinforced in South Korea,” it said.
The statement said that two more F-35As were due to be delivered to South Korea from the US in mid-July. Seoul’s defence ministry declined to comment on whether this was the case.
The two neighbours are technically still at war after the 1950-53 Korean War ended with a ceasefire instead of a peace treaty.
Tensions were raised in May when North Korea fired short-range missiles for the first time since November 2017, during a standstill in its talks with Washington over denuclearisation.
Nuclear-armed Pyongyang has criticised Seoul for not pursuing inter-Korean economic projects as discussed in summit meetings between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in last year.
Several sets of sanctions, imposed on the North over its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes, currently block many proposed developments in sectors from industry to tourism.
(COMBO) This combination of pictures created on November 18, 2019 shows<br />A file photo taken on October 28, 2019 Apple CEO Tim Cook arrives for Apple’s “The Morning Show” global premiere at Lincoln Center- David Geffen Hall on October 28, 2019 in New York; and a file photo taken on October 28, 2019 showing US President Donald Trump gesturing during the International Association of Chiefs of Police Annual Conference and Exposition at the McCormick Place Convention Center October 28, 2019, in Chicago, Illinois. – US President Donald Trump and Apple CEO Tim Cook will visit an Apple manufacturing plant in Texas on November 20, 2019. (Photos by Angela Weiss and Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
The visit will give the US leader a chance to hail American manufacturing and step back, at least temporarily, from his tirade against big technology firms.
Apple announced in September it would keep making its Mac Pro computer in the United States, after obtaining tariff exemptions for some components in the high-end computers.
The developments show an unusual Trump-Cook relationship in sharp contrast with the president’s attacks on other tech giants.
“On the face of it, it’s an unlikely relationship,” said Roger Kay, analyst at Endpoint Technologies Associates who follows the sector.
Cook, who supported Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016, has been able to sidestep much of Trump’s anger by being “very diplomatic,” Kay said.
“He’s not saying ‘I love Trump,’ but he’s not saying ‘I hate Trump,'” said Kay.
“He hasn’t made any disparaging public comments. By not ruffling Trump’s feathers he’s gotten quite a lot out of it.”
Cook and Trump remain far apart on a number of issues including trade and immigration, with Apple opposing the White House plan to end protections for so-called “dreamers” who came to the US as children.
While Apple has acknowledged it has paid some tariffs imposed by Trump on goods imported from China, the iPhone maker has so far avoided a major impact from the trade friction.
 Sidestepping Trump tirades 
Trump, who has called Google and social media firms “biased” and been especially critical of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos — accusing him of using his personal investment in the Washington Post for politics — has had mostly praise for the Apple CEO.
“Other companies hire very expensive consultants,” Trump said in August. “But the only one who calls me is Tim Cook. He calls me whenever there’s a problem.”
Trump, who once referred to the CEO as “Tim Apple,” appears to be forging a friendly relationship with Cook even when he offers criticism.
In one tweet, he seemed to fret over the design of the latest iPhones which no longer have a home button.
“To Tim: The Button on the iPhone was FAR better than the Swipe!” Trump wrote.
According to the Wall Street Journal, Cook has quietly cultivated his relationship with Trump through the president’s daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner, both of whom advise the president.
Trump appears to have softened some of his positions on tariffs after hearing Cook’s argument that punishing Apple would help foreign rivals such as Samsung.
“Tim Cook has gone out of his way it seems to develop a relationship with President Trump because he was concerned I’m sure of the potential impact on the business” from Trump’s policies, said Bob O’Donnell of Technalysis Research.
Because most of Apple products are manufactured in China, “there was a potentially large impact on profitability,” O’Donnell said.
“Tim Cook is trying to be pragmatic and trying to address the issue by tackling it head-on.”
Apple, which benefited from legislation signed by Trump that reduced taxes on repatriated profits from 35 to 15 percent, has responded to White House efforts by pledging to invest $350 billion in the US economy by 2023 through its own manufacturing and from suppliers.
O’Donnell said that Cook’s efforts to forge a relationship with Trump has some risks as well in Silicon Valley, where the president is unpopular.
“I think some people who are Apple fans and don’t like Trump find it a little disconcerting,” O’Donnell said.
Kay said however that Apple employees and customers understand the needs of the business, and that Cook’s efforts might even ease some of the tensions between the White House and the tech industry.
“Maybe Tim can create a rosier halo around Silicon Valley,” Kay said.
“If he puts a human face on Silicon Valley, it could give Trump a slightly different view.”
But that wiliness has reached its limits. Pompeo is now facing fire over accusations he ducked from standing up for the US ambassador to Ukraine, whose sacking is a key part of the House of Representatives’ impeachment inquiry into Trump.
The unusually open criticism by seasoned diplomats comes amid growing expectations that Pompeo will soon exit to run for Senate in his home state of Kansas — where his frequent travel has also come under scrutiny.
Michael McKinley, a four-time ambassador tapped by Pompeo to accompany him around the world as his link to the Foreign Service, resigned in October after the White House put out a conversation between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Trump — who is accused of pressuring Zelensky to investigate the family of domestic rival Joe Biden — in the call denounced the ousted ambassador to Ukraine, Marie Yovanovitch, telling the Ukrainian leader that “the woman” was “bad news.”
McKinley quit with a courteous letter saluting the Foreign Service, but a transcript released Monday of his deposition to House investigators revealed he had unsuccessfully asked Pompeo to back the veteran ambassador.
“Since I began my career in 1982, I have served my country and every president loyally,” McKinley said. 
“Under current circumstances, however, I could no longer look the other way as colleagues are denied the professional support and respect they deserve from us all.”
McKinley said he asked Pompeo to issue a statement defending Yovanovitch’s “professionalism and courage.”
“He listened. That was it. Sort of, ‘Thank you,'” McKinley said.
McKinley said he was later told “it would be better to let this die down” rather than draw “undue attention” to Yovanovitch.
In her own deposition, Yovanovitch said a senior official called her at 1.00 am and told her to take the first flight home, citing vague security concerns, after a campaign against her spearheaded by Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s personal lawyer.
Returning to Washington, she did not see Pompeo but testified that Phil Reeker, the top diplomat for Europe, told her “that the secretary had tried to protect me but was no longer able to do that.”
– ‘Derelict in duty’? –
McKinley nonetheless credited Pompeo with improving the atmosphere at the State Department after the “devastating impact on morale” under his predecessor Rex Tillerson, a former oil executive who made cost-cutting his top priority.
But Bill Burns, a decorated former ambassador generally known for his mild manner, called Pompeo “derelict in his duty” for allowing the “demagogue” Trump to advance an agenda in Ukraine that circumvented diplomats.
In a 33-year career, “I’ve never seen an attack on diplomacy as damaging, to both the State Department as an institution and our international influence, as the one now underway,” he wrote in Foreign Affairs in October.
Pompeo, rarely bashful, hit back in an ABC News interview, saying Burns “is clearly looking for a spot in the next administration.”
After faithfully executing Trump’s often shoot-from-the-hip diplomacy, Pompeo has also started to emulate the president’s seeing-enemies-everywhere rhetorical style. 
Speaking to Fox News, Pompeo mused that former president Barack Obama may have blocked military aid to Ukraine because of Biden’s son Hunter, whose lucrative position on the board of a Ukrainian energy company has been seized upon by Trump.
The Obama administration said it did not give arms so as not to inflame the conflict with Russian-backed separatists, a decision reversed by Trump who signed off on but then controversially delayed lethal aid.
– Out of key picture –
Pompeo remains one of the few officials not to cross Trump in public but he has also appeared, curiously, to be on the sidelines.
Vice President Mike Pence took the lead in negotiating with Turkey to end its incursion into Syria, with Pompeo standing behind him. 
Pompeo was also not in a photo proudly released by Trump of the raid that killed the Islamic State group’s leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, instead attending the wedding of his son’s friend in Kansas.
Pompeo’s visits to Kansas, including a trip with Trump’s daughter Ivanka to highlight job creation, have come under attack by Democratic Senator Robert Menendez, who said Pompeo may be violating a law that bars official travel for partisan purposes.
In one of his many interviews with Kansas media, Pompeo called the New Jersey senator a coastal elitist who “can’t understand how someone would want to go to (an) amazing place like Kansas” — a turn of phrase that would not sound out of place in a campaign.






"We don't have a Tariff problem.... we have a Fed problem," Trump said on Twitter.
He said as the euro falls against the dollar, it is "giving them a big export and manufacturing advantage," while his aggressive tariffs are taking care of "bad and/or unfair players."
Fears that Trump's trade wars are damaging the world's largest economy and pushing the world toward recession have rippled through global markets this month -- with investors soothed this week by the more positive tone struck by Chinese and US officials.
But Trump has frequently lashed out at Chinese and European authorities, accusing them of deliberately weakening their currencies to gain unfair trade advantages -- charges they have denied.
And he has repeatedly criticized Fed chair, Jerome Powell.
With heads bowed and files bulging with forms and papers, the undocumented migrants — most of them from Cuba, Venezuela, Haiti or Honduras — are waiting to meet specialists who can help their case. 
Jose Luis says he escaped from Cuba to Guyana before crossing South America to Chile, then following the Andes north and finally crossing the US-Mexico border into Texas. 
He eventually reached Miami where he was reunited with his 14-year-old daughter.
“That’s what we Cubans have to go through to get out of Cuba because of the tragedy that has engulfed our country,” said the 46-year-old, who did not wish to give his family name.
The migrants are gathered at a branch of the Church World Service (CWS) charity, which has been inundated since Trump threatened last week to “begin the process of removing the millions of illegal aliens.”
The next day, Trump would officially launch his 2020 re-election campaign, around 240 miles (390 kilometers) north of Miami, in Orlando. 
His remarks triggered a wave of panic, with undocumented migrants expecting immigration police to launch a series of raids in the days that followed. However, the administration then said it was postponing the crackdown until next week. 
 Texas is ‘more welcoming’ 
Maureen Porras, managing attorney at CWS, said many of the people who had crossed the border without documents had already been seeking to regularize their status even before Trump’s announcement. 
“This just pushed them just a little bit more to come and seek services faster,” she said. “We have clients that, after that announcement was made, were contacting me and asking, ‘Hey does this apply to me?’, you know: ‘Am I in danger?'”
“And of course we are preparing as best as we can,” she told AFP, saying the charity has expanded its services and is seeking extra financial support.
Lawyers and activists ensure that migrants know their rights, have their papers in order, organize for someone to look after their kids should they be arrested and, above all, know not to open the door if immigration police do not have a warrant. 
But Cuban Carlos Iraola Reyes has taken the difficult decision to move on from Florida, where the law obliges local police forces to cooperate with immigration agents.
“I’m going to Texas because it’s more welcoming,” said the 31-year-old electrical engineer. “You think I can move freely? That would be very naive.”
Uruguayan Rosana Araujo also feels at risk. “I’m scared because I don’t have legal status,” said the 51-year-old domestic worker.
“We are living through a terrifying period when you’re scared of going out into the street, of going to work, or going to the supermarket,” she said.
Even as Florida’s undocumented migrants were living in fear, Vice President Mike Pence was in Miami rallying “Latinos for Trump” ahead of next year’s elections.
 ‘Leading the way’ 
The push to target the Hispanic community, which makes up 26 percent of the state’s 21 million residents, is focusing particularly on Cubans and Venezuelans who back the government’s hardline stance against the socialist regimes in Havana and Caracas.  
But the Republican president has alienated the many Porto Ricans who have settled in the state following the 2017 hurricane that devastated the island, whose recovery Trump was accused of doing little to support.
“Latino Americans are leading the way in this economy,” Pence said. “As President Trump has said, Latino business leaders are living proof that the American dream is back and stronger than ever before.”
Florida is once again expected to be a key battleground state in the 2020 presidential race, which is why both parties are pushing to woo the large Hispanic population. 
According to Pew Research, Florida has the third-highest number of undocumented migrants in the country, after California and Texas, with 825,000 of them in 2017. 
That is why Trump’s raids “could potentially impact many, many families here in South Florida,” Miami’s Archbishop Thomas Wenski told AFP.
“Many of these undocumented or irregular migrants are embedded in American families. In other words, they are brothers, sisters, spouses of American citizens. So it would impact everybody and everybody would feel the pain,” he said.
For its December 2019 special issue, popular U.S magazine Vanity Fair featured John Legend, Chrissy Teigen and their two kids on the cover.
On the cover which is dubbed “Impeachment Special” Legend is pictured kissing Teigen on the cheeks while their kids, Luna and Miles snuggled up next to them.
The couple opened up about their upbringings and hardships. Teigen also talked about her battle with anxiety which keeps her from holding on to memories of trauma or even triumph. Her wedding is described as a blur.
The couple also talked about who they plan to vote for in the 2020 U.S presidential election and their feud with Donald Trump.
Teigen and Legend are frequent, outspoken critics of Trump. Last month, Trump took to his twitter page to hurl insults at the couple after Legend featured in an MSNBC special on criminal justice reform. The president who was upset that the report didn’t mention the First Step Act which he signed into law, tweeted that:
“….musician @johnlegend, and his filthy mouthed wife, are talking now about how great it is – but I didn’t see them around when we needed help getting it passed. “Anchor”@LesterHoltNBC doesn’t even bring up the subject of President Trump or the Republicans when talking about….
John Legend was quick with his replies:
“Imagine being president of a whole country and spending your Sunday night hate-watching MSNBC hoping somebody–ANYBODY–will praise you. Melania, please praise this man. He needs you.”
On her own page, Chrissy Teigen also chimed in:
“The absolute best part of his tweet is I literally didn’t speak in the special, nor was I mentioned. I’m cackling at the pointless addition of me.”
Given human and mechanical error factors inherent in such an operation, the notion that the weapon was ostensibly destined for the Atlantic Ocean, to target a storm emanating off the coast of Africa, should render any African regardless of social strata, economic bracket, life persuasion or generation, apoplectic. Some who find it difficult enough on an ordinary day to hold their head above water, may not be able to do so long enough to summon righteous indignation but will simply surrender their personal sovereignty to any potential fate, with an audible sigh of resignation.           
Trump’s rationale for contemplating the unthinkable, was apparently that the bomb would stop the monster weather event from making landfall in the U.S. Given the measure of the man, the fact that a Trump property is located in the general path of the storm would be all he needed to broach the subject. 
According to ‘Axios’ news, aides who were privy to his articulated line of thought responded by humoring him, informing him that his idea would be taken under advisement. Following his suggestion to nuke tropical storm Dorian, the hashtag #That’s how the apocalypse started; has been trending on twitter. It is a matter of open record that when Rex Tillerson was the secretary of state in his administration, Trump asked his top national security officials to build tens of thousands of new nuclear weapons. Thus far, he has issued veiled and open threats to use nuclear weapons on North Korea, Iran, and Afghanistan.
President Trump. Photo: AXIOS
Trump’s climate science intransigence – turned outright denial, led him to renege from the Paris Climate Accord and he has since openly adopted a mockery–laced, adversarial stand to the letter and spirit of the landmark Agreement. In so doing, he yielded the traditional U.S. ‘primus inter pares’ leadership role in adopting pro-active planetary safeguards and wide-sweeping environmental protections. This was clearly borne out recently during the widely televised G7 meeting, hosted by the French President, Emmanuel Macron. 
President Trump. Photo: AXIOS
In response to the cataclysmic infernos in Brazil’s Amazon region, which were deliberately ignited for the commercialization of the Amazon, Macron and his colleagues convened a session to explore avenues to assist in the rehabilitation of the Amazon rain forest, otherwise known as the  ‘lungs of the planet’. Trump was the sole absentee world leader at the table as he gave the gathering a wide berth. The disavowal of global efforts to stave off environmental destruction is perceived as detrimental to the survival of animal and plant species. Indeed, in the final analysis, the survival of the human species is in the balance. 
‘Brilliant, stupid, crazy and cowardly, enlightened, dazed, talented, crippled, insane, but always powerful. They governed half of the then known world, with hundreds of different peoples, languages, cultures, conditions, and characteristics. A range of the conquered from passive to horrendously aggressive, yet some emperors performed with unbelievable ability. Others with almost unimaginable incompetence. No one can disagree with the importance of the emperors both in the growth and survival of the empire and weakening of the empire.’ (Culled from ‘The mighty emperors of powerful Rome – A collection of humans and not so human fellows.’ Google) The fact that U.S President Trump, the de facto leader of the free world, needs constant affirmation and adulation is not only palpable but painful to digest and pathetic in the extreme. Nothing short of ‘emperor worship’ will assuage his insatiable thirst for unrestrained attention and fawning approval. 
At the same time, his hypersensitivity must be assuaged. Caligula (AD 12 -41) was similarly burdened with these character traits. He was supposedly prematurely bald and this was a source of great embarrassment. Consequently, he made it a capital crime for anyone to look down from a high place as he passed by, and he sometimes ordered those blessed with healthy locks of hair to be shaved. Conversely, he had copious amounts of body hair, which was equally embarrassing. Therefore, great care was taken by those in conversation with him not to utter the words ‘hairy goats’, innocuously or otherwise.
On a par with the preceding account is the dangerous level to which realpolitik has sunk in the U.S., with a dearth of Trump’s Republican Party fellow-travelers willing to publicly state that which is obvious; To wit – Trump poses a national and international threat. 
The specter of a holocaust wrought by acts of commission or omission is so much closer with the world pinned under the cudgel of unmitigated, multifaceted Trumpism. The fact that even in jest or on a whim, Trump would consider deploying nuclear weapons inflicts a near-universal on-going trauma. 
In combination with the foregoing, Trump’s recent public utterance wherein he gazed skywards, placed his hand on his chest and declared himself ‘the chosen one’, does not augur well for our planet or its inhabitants.






President Donald Trump is set to honour actor Jon Voight, writer James Patterson amongst others in a White House ceremony on Thursday for their contributions to arts and humanities, Deadline reports.
The White House announced recipients of the National Medal of Arts and four of the National Humanities Medal on Sunday night.
This will be the first time Trump will host the National Medal of Arts ceremony since his inauguration. The last was held in 2016 by Barack Obama.
The National Medal of Arts is given to individuals who “are deserving of special recognition by reason of their outstanding contributions to the excellence, growth, support and availability of the arts in the United States,” according to the National Endowment for the Arts. National Council on the Arts, which oversees the endowment, reviews nominations and send recommendations to the president, who determines the honorees.
Voight is a very vocal supporter of President Trump, he once called him “the greatest president of this century.” Voight came to prominence in the late 1960s with his Oscar-nominated performance as Joe Buck, a would-be gigolo in Midnight Cowboy (1969). He is the winner of one Academy Award and four Golden Globe Awards.
He is the father of actress Angelina Jolie and actor James Haven.
The recipients of the National Medal of Arts are:
The recipients of the National Humanities Medal are:
Bloodshed on Gaza border 
The US embassy in Jerusalem is inaugurated on May 14, 2018 in a high-profile ceremony attended by President Donald Trump’s daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner.
It is held on the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the state of Israel in part of former Palestine.
The embassy’s move from Tel Aviv — an international first — confirms Trump’s announcement in December that Washington would recognise the holy city as Israel’s capital, infuriating Palestinians who see east Jerusalem as the capital of their own future state.
Palestinian President Mahmud Abbas says the new embassy is tantamount to “a new American settler outpost” and rejects the US role as mediator in the Middle East, a position it has long assumed.
As the opening gets under way, violence flares during mass protests along the border between Israel and the Gaza Strip.
Over the day, 62 Palestinians are killed and more than 2,400 are wounded by Israeli fire, according to Gaza authorities.
The border had already been a flashpoint since March 30 with Palestinians rallying against the US embassy move and calling on Israel to lift its crippling decade-long blockade of Gaza.
Protesters also demand refugees be allowed to return to homes their families fled in the late 1940s during the war surrounding Israel’s creation.
Guatemala follows 
On May 16, Guatemala becomes the second country to transfer its embassy to Jerusalem.
Paraguay follows suit but returns to Tel Aviv less than four months later.
Other countries indicate they also want to make the move, but none take action.
Upsurge in violence 
On May 29-30, the Israeli army pounds dozens of military targets in Gaza after a barrage of rockets and mortars are fired from the enclave.
On July 14, Israel carries out air strikes on Gaza after border clashes and a confrontation with Hamas, the Islamist movement that rules the enclave.
Some 200 rockets and mortars are fired from Gaza into Israel.
Border protests continue, as do rounds of rocket attacks at Israel and retaliatory strikes, each seeming to bring the two sides closer to a full-blown confrontation.
Nearly 300 Palestinians and six Israelis have been killed in the violence in and around Gaza since the border protests started in March 2018.
Sanctions against Palestinians
On August 24, the US cancels more than $200 million in aid initially earmarked for Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank, redirecting it to “high-priority projects elsewhere”.
A week later it says it will end all funding for the UN agency for Palestinian refugees, UNRWA.
On September 10, the Trump administration says it is closing the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO) mission in Washington — the de facto Palestinian embassy — because it “has not taken steps to advance the start of direct and meaningful negotiations with Israel”.
On March 4, 2019, the US downgrades its diplomatic mission to the Palestinians by closing its Jerusalem consulate general.
PLO secretary general Saeb Erekat calls the closure “the last nail in the coffin of the US administration’s role in peacemaking”.
US peace plan upcoming
On April 10, Trump says the re-election of right-wing Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will give a “better chance” to a promised US plan for peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Crafted by Kushner, who is also a senior adviser to Trump, the plan is expected to be unveiled in June.
On May 2, Kushner says his plan will pull back from longstanding mentions of a two-state solution to the conflict.
“I am meeting with President Trump later on and I will tell that, look, there’s not going to be a military solution,” he told the Council on Foreign Relations before the two leaders’ meeting later Monday on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly.
“For 19 years if you have not been able to succeed, you’re not going to be able to succeed in another 19 years,” Khan said.
Trump has frequently called for an end to America’s longest war, launched after the September 11, 2001 attacks, and a senior US diplomat reached a deal to pull troops after a year of negotiating with Taliban militants.
But Trump abruptly ended talks earlier this month, revealing on Twitter that he had invited Taliban leaders to the United States but canceled their visit after a bombing in Kabul killed a US soldier.
Khan — whose government has sought to use its influence with the Taliban — admitted that Trump’s snapping off diplomacy caught him off-guard.
“We read it in the paper. It should have been at least been discussed with us,” he said.
Khan, a former cricket star who has long criticized military operations against extremists, discounted the possibility that the Taliban would topple the internationally recognized government in Kabul without US troops.
“I don’t think the Taliban will be able to control the whole country. I think there will be a settlement,” he said.
“I honestly believe that this is not the Taliban of 2001. There are lot of things that happened and I believe they will be more accommodating,” he said.
The Taliban imposed an austere version of Islam on most of Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001, banning music and girls’ education and giving refuge to Al-Qaeda.
Khan also said he would make a new pitch to Trump to mediate on Kashmir, which is divided between Pakistan and India.
Trump a day earlier held a joint rally with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist whose government last month revoked the Muslim-majority region’s autonomy and cut off most ordinary people’s cellular and internet service.






Pelosi formally launched the impeachment inquiry earlier this week amid a confrontation between Congress and the White House over a whistleblower complaint regarding Trump’s explosive July 25 call with Ukraine’s newly elected President Volodymyr Zelensky.
“Our members came to their own decisions in their own time about this. But when it was such a compelling national security issue, it’s just — he gave us no choice,” the house speaker said in an interview with MSNBC.
The whistleblower, who says he spoke to at least six US government officials, concluded that Trump was “using the power of his office to solicit interference from a foreign country in the 2020 US election,” according to the text of the complaint released on Thursday.
Trump acknowledges he urged Ukraine to launch an anti-corruption probe against Biden — a frontrunner in the race to take on the president in the 2020 election — and Biden’s son.
To coordinate with Ukrainian officials on the investigation, Trump told Zelensky to liaise with both his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani and Attorney General Bill Barr, leading Pelosi to accuse the Justice Department head of misconduct.
“He’s going rogue,” Pelosi said of Barr. “I think where they’re going is a cover-up of the cover-up. And that’s really very sad for them.”
Trump has said he exerted “no pressure” on Kiev, a claim echoed by Zelensky.
But critics maintain that the president held up nearly $400 million in military aid to Ukraine to pressure the Ukrainian leader.
As of Friday, 223 Democrats — all but 12 — and one independent in the 435-seat House of Representatives support an impeachment inquiry, according to Politico.






Ardern, the charismatic young leader who has been hailed as “the anti-Trump” by US media, said she proudly celebrated her country’s diversity.
“Usually I don’t get into other people’s politics, but it will be clear to most people that I completely and utterly disagree with him,” Ardern told Radio New Zealand.
Trump on Sunday urged a group of four Democratic congresswomen of colour — three of them US-born — to “go back” to the countries they came from, then renewed his attack on them a day later.
“If you’re not happy here, you can leave… This is about love for America, certain people hate our country,” he tweeted.
Ardern said New Zealanders welcomed diversity in the corridors of power.
“We take the view that our parliament should be a representative place, it should look and feel like New Zealand, it should have a range of different cultures and ethnicities,” she said.
“And never should a judgement be made about the origin of anyone, and their right, therefore, to be in parliament as a representative.”
British Prime Minister Theresa May and Canadian leader Justin Trudeau have also condemned the tweets, while Democratic presidential candidates have labelled Trump racist.
Ardern has not been shy about highlighting her differences with Trump in the past, advising him to send “sympathy and love to all Muslim communities” in the wake of the Christchurch mosques massacre in March when a gunman killed 51 worshippers.
Shortly after Ardern’s stunning election win in late 2017, Trump met her at a summit in Vietnam and joked she had “caused a lot of upset in her country”.
“You know, no one marched when I was elected,” she retorted, referring to the protests that followed Trump’s victory in 2016.
Trump blasted the media and “Radical Left Democrats” after a former Yale classmate of Kavanaugh alleged that the jurist — one of the most senior judges in the land — exposed himself at a freshman year party before other students pushed his genitals into the hand of a female student.
The latest allegation in The New York Times came after Kavanaugh denied sexual misconduct accusations leveled against him by two women during his confirmation to the Supreme Court last October.
“Now the Radical Left Democrats and their Partner, the LameStream Media, are after Brett Kavanaugh again, talking loudly of their favorite word, impeachment,” Trump tweeted. 
“He is an innocent man who has been treated HORRIBLY. Such lies about him. They want to scare him into turning Liberal!”
The new allegations came from Max Stier, who runs a non-profit in Washington. His concerns were reported to the FBI during Kavanaugh’s 2018 confirmation process but not investigated, according to the Times. 
Stier said he saw his former classmate “with his pants down at a different drunken dorm party, where friends pushed his penis into the hand of a female student.” 
Stier has not spoken publicly about the incident but his story was corroborated by two officials, the Times said.
It is the latest in a string of accusations of unwanted sexual contact or assault against Kavanaugh since Trump nominated him to the Supreme Court.
(FILES) In this file photo taken on October 6, 2018 US President Donald Trump speaks to reporters upon arrival in Topeka, Kansas, on the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. – US President Donald Trump mounted an angry defense of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh on September 15, 2019 as the controversial judge faced calls for an investigation over fresh allegations of sexual misconduct.  Trump blasted the media and “Radical Left Democrats” after a former Yale classmate of Kavanaugh alleged that the jurist — one of the most senior judges in the land — exposed himself at a freshman year party before other students pushed his genitals into the hand of a female student. (Photo by Nicholas Kamm / AFP)
– ‘Shame’ –
Christine Blasey Ford testified before Congress that Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in the 1980s, while Deborah Ramirez told The New Yorker Kavanaugh had waved his penis in front of her face at a 1980s dormitory party.
(FILES) In this file photo taken on October 6, 2018 US President Donald Trump speaks to reporters upon arrival in Topeka, Kansas, on the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. – US President Donald Trump mounted an angry defense of Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh on September 15, 2019 as the controversial judge faced calls for an investigation over fresh allegations of sexual misconduct.  Trump blasted the media and “Radical Left Democrats” after a former Yale classmate of Kavanaugh alleged that the jurist — one of the most senior judges in the land — exposed himself at a freshman year party before other students pushed his genitals into the hand of a female student. (Photo by Nicholas Kamm / AFP)
The latest allegation surfaced during a 10-month investigation by Times reporters Robin Pogrebin and Kate Kelly, and features in their upcoming book, “The Education of Brett Kavanaugh: An Investigation.” 
Trump called on Kavanaugh to take legal action over the claims, suggesting also that the Department of Justice should intervene on the judge’s behalf and “come to his rescue.” 
But Democrats seeking to be Trump’s opponent in the 2020 election called for the judge to be investigated.
“Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation is a shame to the Supreme Court. This latest allegation of assault must be investigated,” former housing secretary and Democratic presidential candidate Julian Castro tweeted.
Minnesota Senator Amy Klobouchar, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee who was involved in a heated exchange with Kavanaugh during his confirmation, described the process as a “sham.”
“I strongly opposed him based on his views on executive power, which will continue to haunt our country, as well as how he behaved, including the allegations that we are hearing more about today,” she told ABC’s “This Week.”
Republican Senator Ted Cruz dismissed the new allegation, however, as “the obsession with the far left with trying to smear Justice Kavanaugh by going 30 years back with anonymous sources.”






The calendar says Halloween is still a week away, but impeachment is delivering the horror show early to Washington.
A city renowned for elegant, neo-classical buildings and buttoned-down bureaucrats has become the set for a political slasher movie.
Fighting for political survival before he can even focus on reelection in 2020, President Donald Trump has the leading role.
He denounced anyone in his party who won’t stick by him as “human scum.”
A gang of loyal Republican congress members stormed a secure briefing room to stop a Democratic-led impeachment hearing, claiming that a “Soviet style” process was underway. Then they ordered pizza.
Not to be out-crazed, Democrat Barack Obama’s former national security advisor Susan Rice went on air to brand a senior Republican senator and Trump booster, Lindsey Graham, a “piece of shit.”
Meanwhile, the media and just about everyone else in Washington puzzled and argued over what exactly Hillary Clinton — the Democrat heavyweight beaten to the White House by Trump in 2016 — meant when she rambled about Russia’s “grooming” of a third party candidate in 2020.
Could she, snarkier observers asked, even return from the dead like a zombie and run against Trump next year?
And that was just this week.
Crime caper
The engine driving the DC ghost train, of course, is the saga of Trump’s alleged abuse of office.
The charges are serious but details emerging from initial rounds of testimony in Congress sometimes resemble a dark comedy.
Trump, a former reality TV performer, is accused of running a secret scheme to get Ukraine’s president, himself a former TV comedian, to announce a corruption investigation aimed at discrediting a top opponent in the 2020 polls, Joe Biden.
To prod the Ukrainians — who had no intention of investigating Biden — Trump allegedly withheld hundreds of millions of dollars in US military aid meant to help the ex-Soviet state fight Russian-backed separatists.
That, Democrats say, was a classic impeachable offense: an out-of-control president manipulating foreign policy and military aid for personal gain.
Trump responded on Tuesday by throwing out a word associated in the United States with the darkest days of the slavery legacy: “a lynching.” Only in this case, he was the victim.
Legal limbo dancing
Wild barely begins to describe the legal turmoil left in the impeachment investigation’s wake.
Detailed testimony to Congress on Thursday from the US acting ambassador to Ukraine, William Taylor, painted a picture of Trump recklessly pursuing his political vendetta.
The pointman in these alleged maneuvers was Rudy Giuliani, the mayor of New York on 9/11 who has since reinvented himself as Trump’s colorful but often erratic fixer.
Allegedly helping him was a Trump-friendly trio of officials: the US ambassador to the European Union, the special Ukraine envoy and the energy secretary. They called themselves the “three amigos.”
According to Taylor, a professional diplomat with an impeccable reputation, their goal was to strongarm fledgling Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky into announcing a probe of the Biden family on CNN.
The White House calls this all part of a “witch hunt” and “coup.”
More legal-minded arguments sound hardly less exotic.
Trump’s loyal former attorney general Matthew Whitaker told Fox this week that “abuse of power is not a crime.”
The conservative-leaning Wall Street Journal opined that even if Trump was up to no good, he was too “inept” to succeed — and that there’s no such thing as “impeachment for incompetence.”
Trump, one of his lawyers said in a separate case ongoing in New York, is basically immune to investigation while he’s president anyway.
Even if he shot someone on Fifth Avenue.
“Nothing could be done?” the judge asked the attorney, William Consovoy.
“Correct,” Consovoy said.






“When will the Radical Left Congresswomen apologize to our Country, the people of Israel and even to the Office of the President, for the foul language they have used, and the terrible things they have said,” Trump wrote on Twitter. 
“So many people are angry at them & their horrible & disgusting actions,” Trump said.
In his initial attack on Sunday, Trump said congresswomen he did not name came from corrupt, poorly managed countries to which they should return.
Democratic presidential candidates and senior legislators branded the comments racist and xenophobic.
Trump last year reportedly referred to countries in Africa as “shithole” nations, and has often described the influx of US-bound migrants as an “invasion.” 
He was also a leading proponent of the “birther” conspiracy theory that Barack Obama was not born on US soil and therefore could not legally be president.
On Sunday, Trump referred on Twitter to “‘Progressive’ Democrat Congresswomen” in remarks that appeared to be aimed at a group of young, outspoken, liberal women of color, all first-time members of the House of Representatives. 
These include Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts.
They “originally came from countries whose governments are a complete and total catastrophe, the worst, most corrupt and inept anywhere in the world,” Trump tweeted.
He accused the women of “viciously telling the people of the United States, the greatest and most powerful Nation on earth, how our government is to be run.”
“Why don’t they go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came. Then come back and show us how it is done,” Trump wrote.
Trump did not identify the targets of his comments by name.
But in a tweet later in the day, he said they “hate Israel with a true and unbridled passion,” indicating that he may have been referring to Omar and Tlaib, who have recently been embroiled in controversies related to the Jewish state.
All but one of the four women were born in the US. Omar fled war-torn Somalia as a child and came to the United States as a refugee.
US President Donald Trump talks to the media on the South Lawn upon his return to the White House by Marine One, in Washington, DC, November 3, 2019, after returning from a trip to New York. (Photo by Olivier Douliery / AFP)
Trump’s demand, in a tweet, comes amid an intensifying effort by Republican lawmakers to expose the whistleblower and attack his or her credibility.
Described only as an intelligence official who once worked at the White House, the whistleblower was the first to raise concerns about Trump’s attempt to pressure Ukraine to investigate political rival, Joe Biden.
“The Whistleblower got it so wrong that HE must come forward,” Trump said.
“The Fake News Media knows who he is but, being an arm of the Democrat Party, don’t want to reveal him because there would be hell to pay. Reveal the Whistleblower and end the Impeachment Hoax!”
A parade of current and former diplomats and national security officials, however, have since corroborated the essence of the complaint — an apparent attempt to pressure Ukraine to investigate the president’s Democratic opponents.
At issue is whether Trump ordered the withholding of nearly $400 million in crucial military aid to Ukraine to get its new president to investigate Biden and his son Hunter, as well as a debunked conspiracy theory involving the Democrats in 2016.
The whistleblower’s lawyer, Mark Zaid, said on Twitter Sunday that his client had made a direct offer to Republican lawmakers to answer their questions in writing.
The offer made to Devin Nunes, the ranking Republican is handled in a nonpartisan way, Zaid told CBS News.
“Recent GOP messaging, led by President Trump (incl this morning), has been to highlight original #WBer & demand disclosure of identity,” Zaid said on Twitter.
Meanwhile, some Republican lawmakers have retweeted speculation in conservative media about the whistleblower’s identity.
Steve Scalise, the number two Republican in the House, said the whistleblower would be the first person his side would call to testify in public impeachment hearings.
Republicans would have the right to call their own witnesses and propose subpoenas, under rules approved by the House for soon-to-be-held public impeachment hearings.
“This is a person who claims to be a whistleblower, but even the IG (inspector general) reported that this person has a political bias,” Scalise said on ABC’s “This Week.”
“There are many reports out there that the whistleblower actually worked for Joe Biden. That concerns a lot of people.”
The inspector general of the US intelligence community, Michael Atkinson, investigated the whistleblower’s claims and, while noting “some indicia of arguable political bias,” found them to be “credible” and of “urgent concern.”






As Barack Obama’s vice president, Joe Biden and other Western leaders pressured Ukraine to get rid of the country’s top prosecutor, Viktor Shokin, because he was seen as not tough enough on corruption.
“Biden went around bragging that he stopped the prosecution so if you can look into it,” Trump said.






“I think they respect the trade war. It has to happen,” Trump told reporters in Biarritz, France, where he was meeting with other leaders of the G7 group.
Asked if the other leaders had criticized the massive trade struggle, he said “no, not at all. I haven’t heard that”.
In fact, European members of the G7, which includes Britain, Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Japan, and the United States, have repeatedly expressed concern over the trade war’s threat to the wider global economy.
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was the latest, telling Trump at a breakfast meeting Sunday that “we don’t like tariffs on the whole”.
“We are in favor of trade peace,” he said.
Talks between Washington and Beijing on ending what Trump says is a massively unfair trade relationship have hit a brick wall.
On Friday, Trump responded to a new hike in Chinese tariffs on US goods by imposing heavy extra levies against a total of $550 billion in Chinese imports.
But Trump signalled Sunday what might be a slight softening in his position, admitting that he did have doubts about escalating the trade war.
“I have second thoughts about everything,” he said.
He said he would hold off for now on declaring a national emergency to invoke an obscure law that he says gives him the power to order US companies out of China.
“I have the right to, if I want. I could declare a national emergency,” he said. “I have no plan right now.”
Trump first brandished the possibility of the drastic measure on Friday, when he tweeted that American companies “are hereby ordered to immediately start looking for an alternative to China.”
Despite the more nuanced comments Sunday, Trump doubled down on the rationale for his high-risk strategy with China, saying “they steal and take out, and — intellectual property theft, anywhere from $300 billion to $500 billion a year.”
“We have a total loss of almost a trillion dollars a year,” he said. “In many ways, that’s an emergency.”
As he has repeatedly over the last months, Trump insisted that China will eventually cave into US demands for reforming its economic model and transforming the trade relationship.
“We’re talking. I think they want to make a deal much more than I do,” he said.






The officer’s Facebook post followed criticism that the president’s incendiary rhetoric, which continued Monday with a new tweet about the four “very racist” and “not very smart” Democratic congresswomen, was bordering on incitement to violence.
“This vile idiot needs a round…….and I don’t mean the kind she used to serve,” Charlie Rispoli, of the Gretna police department, wrote of former bartender Ocasio-Cortez, according to local media.
The post, which has been removed, prompted Gretna police chief Arthur Lawson to order an investigation, vowing that he was “not going to take this lightly,” according to Louisiana news site NOLA. 
Over the past week Trump has tweeted multiple attacks on Ocasio-Cortez and fellow first-term, ethnic minority lawmakers Rashida Tlaib, Ilhan Omar and Ayanna Pressley.
The rhetoric provoked angry outcries from Democrats, and denunciations from some Republicans, as the parties gear up for an intense 2020 presidential race.
The four lawmakers — who have become known collectively as the “Squad” — appeared to be coming under increasing threat in the wake of Trump’s attacks.
The Illinois Republican County Chairmen’s Association branded them “The Jihad Squad” in a movie poster-style meme featuring the slogan “political jihad is their game.”
Omar and Tlaib are the first two Muslim women in Congress.
The poster, which has since been removed from the group’s page, shows Omar appearing to hold a large shotgun, while Pressley brandishes a pistol.
Association president Mark Shaw said he condemned the “unauthorized posting,” but then went on to criticize the “socialist” lawmakers for their politics.
The Cook County Democratic Party in Illinois accused the Republican group of perpetuating “lies and racism” and said such bigotry “has dangerous consequences.” 
But Trump downplayed his broader clash with the squad, telling reporters Monday “there’s no racial tension,” even as he insisted the lawmakers are “very bad for our country.”
A week earlier Trump tweeted that the women — all US citizens, three of whom were born in America — they should “go back” to other countries.
Days later, as he singled out Omar for criticism at a campaign rally, his supporters chanted “send her back!”
Mexico’s President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said Friday that his country was “doing our job” to stop the flow of undocumented migrants to the United States, and warned Trump that hitting his neighbor with tariffs would be a lose-lose game.
But the US leader then doubled down on his threats, saying in a flurry of tweets that “Mexico has taken advantage of the United States for decades.”
The impact of new tariffs would be devastating for Mexico, which sends 80 percent of its exports to the US.
Lopez Obrador reminded his American counterpart the tariffs would also take a heavy toll on the United States, whose largest trading partner so far this year is Mexico thanks mainly to Trump’s trade war with China.
Earlier this month Trump, angered by what he deemed unfair Chinese trade practices, raised punitive duties on $200 billion in Chinese imports. Beijing has promised retaliation.
Effects of the Mexico tariffs would ripple across multiple economic sectors, including the automobile industry and agriculture.
“No good can come of coercive measures… These (tariffs) would not be good for Mexicans, but they would not be good for Americans either,” said Lopez Obrador.
He said his government would act prudently, and a delegation led by Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard had already been sent to Washington for talks.
Ebrard is expected to meet US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday.”We will be firm and we will defend the dignity of Mexico,” Ebrard said.
A State Department spokeswoman said Ebrard and Pompeo spoke by phone on Friday, but gave few details.
“We maintain an ongoing dialogue and close cooperation with Mexico on a wide range of issues, including border security efforts,” she said.
Trump, meanwhile, only stepped up his Twitter attacks.”Mexico must take back their country from the drug lords and cartels. The Tariff is about stopping drugs as well as illegals!” he fumed.
Market turmoil 
Trump’s startling announcement of the new tariffs came the same day he started the process of ratifying the new North American trade pact with Mexico and Canada, the USMCA — an agreement that now may be under threat.
Global markets slumped over the latest trade war threat.
The top three US markets all closed down 1.3 percent or more, with some automakers skidding five percent.
Shares in Tokyo lost 1.6 percent, European markets were also hit, and the Mexican peso dropped 2.5 percent against the dollar.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the powerful Democrat who has a key say in whether Congress takes up the USMCA in the coming weeks, slammed the president’s move as “recklessness.”
Even some senior Trump aides opposed his plan, notably Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, NBC reported, citing a source close to the White House.
Republican allies in Congress also warned Trump not to damage a vital trade relationship over border concerns.
“This is a misuse of presidential tariff authority and counter to congressional intent,” said Senate Finance Committee chairman Chuck Grassley, one of several Republicans to oppose Trump’s plan.
US industry groups voiced their disapproval, too, with the Business Roundtable warning Trump that unilateral imposition of tariffs “would be a grave error.”
The US Chamber of Commerce said a five percent tariff on Mexican imports, which last year totaled $346.5 billion, would amount to a $17 billion hit on US consumers and businesses.
Should the tariffs tank the USMCA, “that would have serious consequences for the three countries’ economies,” Ana Maria Salazar, an expert on US-Mexico relations, told AFP.
 Clash over migrants 
Trump pledged in his 2016 election campaign to crack down on illegal immigration, but the numbers of migrants have steadily climbed.
The number apprehended at the US-Mexico border has topped 100,000 a month in recent months.That included a new record of 58,474 people who crossed in family groups in April, and a single group of 1,036 people that particularly outraged Trump when it crossed into El Paso, Texas this week.
They are mostly people fleeing poverty and violence in Central America and ask for asylum once they reach US soil.
Trump has consistently demonized the migrants as criminals and gang members, and warned that illegal drugs are flowing across the border.Lopez Obrador insisted his government is working to slow the flow.
“We are doing our job, without violating (migrants’) human rights,” said the left-wing populist, who has sought to maintain cordial relations with Trump despite the Republican billionaire’s frequent anti-Mexican outbursts.
Efforts at immigration reform have stalled in Congress, and Trump has been stymied by courts on some measures his administration has attempted.
Tapping his executive powers, Trump has also taken money from the military budget to construct sections of wall along the lengthy frontier, despite his campaign pledge that Mexico would pay for the barrier.






Michael Bloomberg announced Sunday he is running for president, joining the crowded field of Democrats seeking to take on his fellow New York billionaire, President Donald Trump.
“I’m running for president to defeat Donald Trump and rebuild America,” Bloomberg, 77, said on his web page as a $30 million Bloomberg ad campaign hit US airwaves.
The announcement ended speculation about the intentions of Bloomberg, who for weeks has been filing paperwork to be eligible as a candidate in primary voting and registered with the Federal Election Commission.
“We cannot afford four more years of President Trump’s reckless and unethical actions,” the former New York mayor said. “He represents an existential threat to our country and our values. If he wins another term in office, we may never recover from the damage.”
With a personal fortune of $50 billion, Bloomberg will shake up the open race, with 17 candidates already vying to be the Democratic nominee to take on Trump next year.
Former vice president Joe Biden leads the race ahead of left-wingers Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, with moderate Pete Buttigieg in fourth place, according to national polls.






Sanford, 59, announced he was dropping out of the race at an event in New Hampshire, which holds the first Republican presidential primary, his hometown newspaper, The Post and Courier, reported.
Sanford’s bid to challenge the sitting president for the Republican nomination failed to gain much traction since he threw his name into the ring two months ago.
His departure from the race leaves two other Republicans waging longshot bids to win the Republican nomination — former Massachusetts governor William Weld and former Illinois congressman Joe Walsh.
Sanford was governor of South Carolina from 2003 to 2011, and served two separate stints in the House of Representatives, but lost a party primary in 2018 after Trump urged voters to back his challenger.
[ad[
His remarks came after a top-level US official last month described the rivalry between China and the US as “a fight with a really different civilisation and a different ideology”.
Kiron Skinner, the director of policy planning at the US State Department, put it in racial terms, telling a security forum that China was the first US “great power competitor that is not Caucasian”.
“Thinking that one’s own race and culture are superior, and insisting on transforming or even replacing other civilisations is stupid in its understanding and disastrous in practice,” Xi said at the opening ceremony of the Conference on Dialogue of Asian Civilisations in Beijing.
“There is no clash between different civilisations, (we) just need to have the eye to appreciate the beauty in all civilisations,” he added, without mentioning the United States.
Xi’s speech comes less than a week after trade negotiations between Washington and Beijing took a turn for the worse, with the US hiking tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese merchandise and targeting duties on $300 billion more.
On Monday, China retaliated with an announcement that it would raise tariffs on $60 billion worth of US goods from June 1.
The two countries are locked in a battle for global influence, with diplomatic and economic tensions ranging from US military aid to self-ruled Taiwan to criticism of Beijing’s Belt and Road global infrastructure programme.
China’s rising influence has also raised alarm bells in Asia, especially as it continues to assert its vast territorial claims in the disputed South China Sea and East China Sea.
Last month, Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte warned Beijing to back off from a Manila-held island in the South China Sea, threatening possible military action if Beijing “touched” the island.
Xi’s speech on Wednesday also focused on promoting cross-cultural collaboration across the region, and urged other Asian nations to “strengthen cultural confidence”.
“On the foundation of the brilliant achievements obtained by our ancestors, we will… strive to continue writing the new glory of Asian civilisations,” he said.
Washington has made clear it opposes the purchase of the Russian S-400 system, giving Turkey until July 31 to give up the deal, which it considers incompatible with Ankara’s participation in the F-35 fighter jet programme.
And Trump reiterated the position in talks with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Japan’s Osaka where the G20 summit is being held.
“It’s a problem, there’s no question about it,” Trump said.
“It’s not good. It’s not good.”
But he added that Turkey “has been a friend of ours… We’re a big trading partner. We’re going to be much bigger.”
Washington has said that if by July 31 Turkey does not give up on the S-400 system, Ankara would be blocked from purchasing F-35 fighter jets and Turkish pilots currently training in the US would be expelled.
The purchase has raised eyebrows among Turkey’s NATO allies and provoked anger in Washington, which expected Ankara to opt for the American Patriot air defence system instead. 
But Turkey has remained committed to the purchase, with Erdogan saying earlier this month: “We have completed the business. God willing, the system will be delivered to our country next month.”
The Turkish presidency said after the meeting that Erdogan emphasised to Trump that Turkey was “determined to ensure its national security” and shared his concerns over “efforts that could damage their strategic partnership.”
The presidency added Trump told the Turkish leader he hoped the S-400 issue would be solved “without damaging bilateral relations”.
Meeting President Vladimir Putin, Erdogan said the deal with Russia was “of prime importance” to Turkey.






But Trump's job of consoler in chief is complicated by charges that his own messaging -- in particular his vilification of illegal immigrants -- has emboldened political extremists.
At the mass shooting in El Paso, Texas, where 22 people were murdered in a Walmart frequented by many Hispanic people, the killer published a manifesto echoing Trump's repeated description of illegal immigration as an "invasion."
Trump pushed back at the White House, saying "I think my rhetoric brings people together."
"My critics are political people, they're trying to make points. In many cases they're running for president," the Republican told reporters.
One of those critics, Democratic frontrunner Joe Biden, was to pile on the pressure later Wednesday with a speech accusing Trump of fanning "the flames of white supremacy."
"Trump offers no moral leadership, no interest in unifying the nation," the text of Biden's speech said. "We have a president with a toxic tongue who has publicly and unapologetically embraced a political strategy of hate, racism, and division."
 Awkward reception 
Protests are expected in both Dayton and El Paso, even if demonstrators are likely to be kept far from the president.
And Dayton's Democratic mayor Nan Whaley bluntly promised to give Trump a piece of her mind, telling him "how unhelpful he's being."
"The people should stand up and say they are not happy," she told journalists Tuesday.
In El Paso, the US-Mexico border town Trump will visit before returning on Air Force One to Washington, local Democratic congresswoman Veronica Escobar said she'd stay clear.
"From my perspective, he is not welcome here. He should not come here," Escobar said Tuesday on MSNBC.
Even the city's Republican mayor offered only a grudging welcome, stressing icily that he would greet Trump in his "official capacity."
 'Least racist person' 
Trump is infuriated by accusations that his administration is deliberately dividing the United States on racial lines.
"I am the least racist person. Black, Hispanic and Asian Unemployment is the lowest (BEST) in the history of the United States!" he tweeted Tuesday.
But his campaign speeches and tweets repeatedly link Hispanic migrants to murder, rape and invasion. As recently as May, the president laughed and made a quip when a supporter at one of his rallies yelled that they should "shoot" illegal immigrants.
Trump has also railed crudely against a string of ethnic minority Democratic opponents.
 Gun control? 
Where Trump and his mostly leftist opponents agree is on the unambiguous designation of the two events as terrorism.
Massacres by mostly lone gunmen are all but routine in the United States, where guns are easy to obtain legally and mass killings have taken on a sort of cult status in extreme circles.
Hardline defenders of gun ownership have long resisted portrayal of such tragedies as anything more than random, localized events.
But Trump on Monday said he had told the FBI to treat such crimes as "domestic terrorism."
On Wednesday, Trump also said that Republicans and Democrats were "close" to agreeing on stronger background checks for people purchasing firearms -- a measure opposed by gun-rights lobbies.
"I think background checks are important. I don't want to put guns into the hands of mentally unstable people or people with rage or hate," Trump said.
However, he said, "there is no political appetite" for banning military-style assault weapons, which are widely available and are often chosen by mass killers.
“Viktor Orban has done a tremendous job in so many different ways,” Trump told reporters ahead of Oval Office talks with the controversial prime minister.
“Respected all over Europe,” Trump said, adding: “Probably like me a little bit controversial, but that’s okay. You’ve done a good job and you’ve kept your country safe.”
Trump gave Orban a warm welcome at the White House, where they were planning discussions on European regional issues, NATO, energy and trade.
The two share similar stances on immigration and both are critics of NATO and the European Union while seeking better ties with Moscow.
“I know he’s a tough man, but he’s a respected man, and he’s done the right thing, according to many people, on immigration,” Trump added.
“You look at some of the problems they have in Europe that are tremendous because they have done it a different way than the prime minister.”
The one-on-one talks with Trump offer the eurosceptic Orban a podium less than two weeks before EU parliamentary elections in which far-right parties are expected to make a strong showing.
“I would like to express that we are proud to stand together with the United States on fighting against illegal migration, on terrorism and to protect and help the Christian communities around the world,” Orban told reporters.
Trump replied: “You have been great with respect to Christian communities. You have really put a block up, and we appreciate that very much.”
 Controversial visit 
The runup to the visit drew strong criticism from Democrats and activists who accused Trump of giving a platform to an anti-democratic leader.
US ties with Budapest were chilly under Trump’s predecessor Barack Obama, who often chided Orban for cracking down on civil liberties and freedom of the press in Hungary.
But Washington reversed course under Trump, whose anti-immigration campaign echoes Orban’s, as well as what his critics say is an alignment with white Christian nationalists.
Trump has shown a preference for authoritarian leaders over Washington’s traditional Western allies, as underscored by his warm welcomes for Egypt’s Abdel Fattah al-Sisi and Turkey’s Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the White House.
“Hungary’s prime minister does not belong in the Oval Office,” Rob Berschinski, of Human Rights First, and Johns Hopkins professor Hal Brands wrote in a Washington Post opinion column.
“The visit is a grievous mistake — not just because it will be seen as an endorsement of a leader who has successfully dismantled a democracy, but also because it will signal an affirmation of an agenda that is fundamentally threatening to transatlantic security.”
In a letter ahead of the visit, several Democratic lawmakers said Trump should postpone their meeting until Orban “returns his country to the path of democracy and respect for human rights.”
Trump’s sanctions warning — which he delivered via Twitter — came as French President Emmanuel Macron’s top diplomatic advisor met with Iran’s president, winding up a day of talks in Tehran aimed at saving a landmark 2015 nuclear deal.
The 2015 accord between Iran and world powers promised sanctions relief, economic benefits and an end to international isolation in return for stringent curbs on the Islamic republic’s nuclear program.
Tehran says it has lost patience with perceived inaction by European countries more than a year after Trump unilaterally pulled the US out of the agreement and started to impose punishing sanctions.
Tensions between Washington and Tehran have soared in recent weeks, with the United States blaming Iran for multiple attacks on tanker ships, and the Islamic republic shooting down an American surveillance drone.
On Wednesday, armed Iranian boats attempted to seize a British oil tanker but were driven off by a Royal Navy frigate, CNN reported.
The Iranians ordered the tanker, which was crossing into the Strait of Hormuz area, to change course and stop in Tehran’s nearby waters, CNN said, citing two American officials.
A US aircraft shot video of the incident, which ended when the HMS Montrose — which was escorting the tanker — trained its guns on the boats and successfully warned them to back off, the channel said.
‘Consequences’
Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani had warned Britain of unspecified “consequences” on Wednesday over the detention of one of the country’s oil tankers off Gibraltar.
The Grace 1 tanker was halted last week by police and customs officers in Gibraltar — a British overseas territory on Spain’s southern tip — with the aid of a detachment of British Royal Marines.
Iran condemned the detention as an “illegal interception,” but Gibraltar officials said that the cargo was believed to be destined for Syria, which is subject to European sanctions.
Macron’s envoy Emmanuel Bonne met with Rouhani on Wednesday, who said that Tehran had “completely kept the path of diplomacy and talks open,” according to a statement from his office.
He called on other parties to the nuclear deal to “completely implement their commitments” to keep it alive.
Bonne also met Rear-Admiral Ali Shamkhani, the secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif.
His mission was “to try and open the discussion space to avoid an uncontrolled escalation, or even an accident,” according to French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian.
Before meeting with Bonne, Zarif said “negotiations are never possible under pressure,” in reference to US sanctions against Iran.
Pointing to the US withdrawal from the nuclear deal, he added that the Europeans “must solve that problem.”
‘Nuclear extortion’ 
Bonne arrived in Tehran after Iran announced on Monday it had surpassed 4.5 percent uranium enrichment — above the 3.67 percent limit under the accord, though still far below the 90 percent necessary for military purposes.
Earlier this month, it was confirmed that Iran surpassed 300 kilograms of enriched uranium reserves, another limit that was imposed by the deal.
At Washington’s request, the UN’s nuclear watchdog held a special meeting Wednesday at its Vienna headquarters.
US delegate Jackie Wolcott told the gathering that Iran was engaged in “nuclear extortion.”
Her Iranian counterpart Kazem Gharib Abadi hit back, calling it a “sad irony” that the meeting was convened at Washington’s request and claiming the current standoff was a result of the US’s “outlaw behavior.”
After Washington withdrew from the nuclear deal in May 2018, it reimposed sanctions on Tehran, hitting the banking and oil sectors hard.
As the Iranian economy went into free fall, Tehran demanded that the other parties — especially the Europeans — deliver promised economic benefits and help it bypass the US sanctions.
However, it became clear that this was no simple task, and Iran — whose economy depends heavily on oil exports — changed tack and indicated it would reshape its policy of “strategic patience.”
In May, a year after Trump’s withdrawal, Rouhani said Iran would roll back its commitments under the deal in stages every 60 days in an effort to force the other parties to deliver on their side of the bargain.






North Korea said Sunday it has “no intention” to continue nuclear talks unless the United States takes steps to end hostilities, a day after negotiations in Sweden broke down.
The discussions in Sweden followed months of stalemate following a February meeting between the North’s leader Kim Jong Un and President Donald Trump and came after Pyongyang’s defiant test of a sea-launched ballistic missile on Wednesday.
The North walked away from the Sweden talks saying it was disappointed at the lack of “new and creative” solutions offered by Washington, although the US insisted it was willing to meet again in two weeks.
But a spokesman at the North’s foreign ministry said Washington’s claims about another meeting was “ungrounded”.
“We have no intention to hold such sickening negotiations as what happened this time before the US takes a substantial step to make a complete and irreversible withdrawal of the hostile policy toward the DPRK,” he said using the acronyms of the North’s official name.
In a statement carried by the North’s Korean Central News Agency, the spokesman warned that their “dealings” may immediately end if the US sticks to its old playbook.
“The fate of the future DPRK-US dialogue depends on the US attitude, and the end of this year is its deadline,” he added.
 ‘Good discussions’ 
In Stockholm, the nuclear-armed North’s leading negotiator, Kim Myong Gil, blamed the US for not giving up their “old attitude” which led to talks ending “without any outcome”.
But Washington called the talks “good discussions”, saying the comments by North Korea did not reflect the content of the spirit their eight-and-a-half-hour discussion.
The United States accepted host Sweden’s invitation to resume talks in two weeks’ time, State Department spokeswoman Morgan Ortagus said.
Ortagus added in a statement that the US “previewed a number of new initiatives” that would allow progress on the statement reached in Singapore at the first Trump-Kim summit last year.
The two leaders adopted a vaguely worded document on the “complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula” at their first summit in June last year, but little progress has since been made.
On Wednesday, North Korea claimed to have entered a new phase in its defence capability with Wednesday’s test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile — the most provocative since Pyongyang began a dialogue with Washington in 2018.
Trump has said he sees no problem with a string of short-range missile tests conducted previously by North Korea while insisting his personal ties with the North’s leader remain good.
North Korea is banned from ballistic missile launches by the United Nations Security Council resolutions.
The Security Council is expected to hold closed-door talks early next week on the latest test at the request of Britain, France and Germany, diplomats said.
Lagarde, who takes over leadership of the European Central Bank on November 1, called for world leaders to act like grownups and negotiate a solution to the trade conflicts, and called for “rational decisions.”
Newly freed from the restraints of her previous post, where she would have had to guard her language, Lagarde said, “market stability should not be the subject of a tweet here, a tweet there.”
“It requires consideration, thinking, quiet and measured and rational decisions,” she said of Trump in the interview due to air Sunday night.
Lagarde led the Washington-based crisis lender for eight years and previously was more cautious in comments about Trump since the United States is the main IMF shareholder.
In the interview, she warned that Trump’s trade war with China will give the global economy “a big haircut.” 
“My very, very strong message to all policymakers is please sit down like big men, many men in those rooms and put everything on the table, and try to deal bit by bit, piece by piece, so that we have certainty,” she said, according to excerpts of the interview released by CBS News.
As she takes on the new role as central banker, Lagarde also took a swipe at Trump’s barrage of criticism of his own Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell, whom Trump has called a “bonehead” among other insults.
“A central bank governor does best his job if he is independent.”
Xi visited North Korea prior to meeting Trump at the G20 in Japan on Saturday, and analysts had said the Chinese leader could use the trip as leverage in his trade war talks with the US leader.
Trump met North Korean leader Kim Jong Un the next day at the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) dividing North and South Korea.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told reporters on Tuesday that Xi “pushed for the US to show flexibility and meet the DPRK (North Korea) halfway, including the timely easing of sanctions against the DPRK and finding a solution to each other’s concerns through dialogue”.
China and North Korea have worked to improve relations in the past year after they deteriorated as Beijing backed a series of UN sanctions against its Cold War-era ally over its nuclear activities.
But Beijing has sought to keep Pyongyang within its sphere of influence and Kim met Xi four times in China in the past four years.
A week before the G20 summit in Osaka, Xi became the first Chinese leader to visit North Korea in 14 years in a trip analysts said was meant to showcase China’s influence over the North prior to trade talks with the US.
‘Astounding imagination’ 
Trump became the first US president to step on North Korean soil after he and Kim shook hands during their impromptu meeting over the weekend.
Wang said China welcomes the meeting and said the situation on the peninsula now has a “rare opportunity for peace”.
“We hope that the political will of the leaders of the two countries can be translated into substantive progress in dialogue and negotiation as soon as possible,” he said.
In Seoul, South Korean President Moon Jae-in hailed as the result of “astounding imagination”.
It was a “de-facto declaration of an end to hostile relations and the beginning of a full-fledged era of peace”, said Moon, who has long promoted engagement with Pyongyang.
The South Korean leader was instrumental in brokering the landmark summit between Trump and Kim in Singapore last year which produced only a vaguely worded pledge about denuclearisation.
After their latest meeting, Trump said he and Kim agreed to start working-level talks on a denuclearisation deal, ending a standstill in place since the two leaders’ second summit, in Hanoi in late February, ended without an agreement.
Talks in Vietnam had collapsed after the pair failed to reach an accord over sanctions relief and what the North was willing to give in return.
Since then, contact between the two sides had been minimal — with Pyongyang issuing frequent criticisms of the US position — but the two leaders exchanged a series of letters before Trump issued his offer to meet at the DMZ.
Upon his return from the Korean Peninsula, Trump has faced attacked from critics in the US, who said the US leader was normalising a nuclear-armed Pyongyang.
Top Republican leaders rallied around Trump, but four members of the president’s party voted with the 235 Democrats to condemn him for “racist comments that have legitimized and increased fear and hatred of new Americans and people of colour.”
One independent lawmaker also supported the measure, which takes aim at Trump’s weekend tweets telling a group of progressive Democratic congresswomen of colour to “go back” to other countries.
The resolution also takes the president to task for “referring to immigrants and asylum seekers as ‘invaders.'” 
Trump has a long history of pandering to white suspicions about other ethnic groups, and the resolution criticizes him for “saying that Members of Congress who are immigrants (or those of our colleagues who are wrongly assumed to be immigrants) do not belong in Congress or in the United States of America.”
Democrats hold a majority in the 435-member House but are outnumbered by Republicans in the Senate, where the resolution is unlikely to be considered.
The four congresswomen — all but one of whom were born in the US — are of Hispanic, Arab, Somali and African-American descent.
Trump has stuck by the provocative comments. 
“Our Country is Free, Beautiful and Very Successful. If you hate our country, or if you are not happy here, you can leave!” the president tweeted Tuesday.
Democratic leaders denounced Trump’s remarks and rallied around the lawmakers — Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib, Ilhan Omar and Ayanna Pressley.
Omar is the only one born outside the United States.
Slamming the “so-called vote” as a “Democrat con game,” Trump urged Republicans not to “show ‘weakness’ and fall into their trap.”
“Those Tweets were NOT Racist. I don’t have a Racist bone in my body!” Trump said.
“This should be a vote on the filthy language, statements and lies told by the Democrat Congresswomen, who I truly believe, based on their actions, hate our Country,” he wrote.
“Nancy Pelosi tried to push them away, but now they are forever wedded to the Democrat Party,” Trump added, in a jab at the House speaker who has had a tenuous relationship with the four left-leaning first-term congresswomen.
Speaking on the House floor prior to the vote, Pelosi said: “Every single member of this institution, Democratic and Republican, should join us in condemning the president’s racist tweets.”
“To do anything less would be a shocking rejection of our values and a shameful abdication of our oath of office to protect the American people.”
“I know racism when I see it. I know racism when I feel it. And at the highest level of government, there’s no room for racism,” Representative John Lewis, an American civil rights icon, said in remarks on the House floor.
 ‘All about politics’ 
Trump’s repeated attacks appear to be aimed at galvanizing his mostly white electoral base ahead of the 2020 presidential vote.
They would seem to have borne fruit, with his approval rating among Republicans rising five percentage points to 72 percent, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll conducted on Monday and Tuesday.
His overall rating with the public at large remained unchanged from last week at 41 percent.
“See you in 2020!” said Trump, who before becoming president pushed the racist “birther” conspiracy theory that Barack Obama was not born in the United States.
Ocasio-Cortez dismissed Trump’s denial that he is a racist.
“You’re right, Mr President — you don’t have a racist bone in your body,” she tweeted. “You have a racist mind in your head, and a racist heart in your chest.”
She also took aim at Republican lawmakers who voted against the resolution, telling CBS News that “they could not bring themselves to have the basic human decency to vote against the statement that the president made.”
Trump meanwhile took to Twitter on Tuesday night to hail “how unified the Republican Party was on today’s vote.”
While some Republican members of Congress have condemned Trump’s remarks, House Republican leaders closed ranks behind the president.
“This is all about politics,” said House Republican minority leader Representative Kevin McCarthy of California.
Senator Mitch McConnell, the leader of the Republican majority in the Senate, said: “the president is not a racist.” 
Clintons are killers?
A pedophile financier who hobnobbed with the rich and famous dies in his New York jail cell hours after court documents on his sex-trafficking case are made public: the apparent suicide of Jeffrey Epstein on Saturday had all the elements of a paperback thriller.
But where senior officials might be expected to show caution, Trump retweeted a video rant by a comedian blaming former president Bill and former Trump election rival Hillary Clinton for Epstein’s death on Saturday.
“For some odd reason, people that have information on the Clintons end up dead and they usually die from suicide,” the comedian, Terrence K. Williams, says in all seriousness — and with no proof.
Williams has about half a million Twitter followers. Trump? Some 63 million.
Obama an illegal president
A president accusing a former president of murder would be an unimaginable breach of Washington protocol if it came from anyone but Trump.
But he has form.
Trump’s spectacular rise from television entertainer and real estate dealer rests in large part on his long-running pursuit of another presidential conspiracy theory: that his predecessor in the White House, Obama, was born in Kenya.
You have to have been born in the United States to seek the presidency, so Trump was really saying that the first black president was illegal.
Even Trump finally accepted this is not true. Obama was born in the US state of Hawaii.
Who shot JFK? 
Along with the supposedly faked Moon landing, probably the richest of all US conspiracy fields is the assassination in 1963 of John F. Kennedy.
Was the president shot in Dallas by lone gunman Lee Harvey Oswald, as the police and the subsequent 10-month Warren Commission, found?
Or was his murder arranged by the CIA? Or Cuba? Or the KGB? The unproven theories are many.
Trump, when running for the White House in 2016, added an incredible new twist: that none other than the father of one of his main opponents for the Republican nomination had a hand in the killing.
A grainy black and white photograph of Oswald shows an unidentified man in the background and that man, Trump claimed, with zero evidence, was opponent Ted Cruz’s father.
“What was he doing with Lee Harvey Oswald shortly before the death? Before the shooting?” Trump asked.
Trump has since quietly forgotten about this seemingly important question and is a supporter of Cruz, an influential senator.
The case of the dead judge 
Also back in 2016, with Trump already frontrunner in the Republican nomination contest, there was the case of Antonin Scalia, a Supreme Court justice who died in his sleep.
Or did he?
The owner of the luxury ranch where Scalia had been on a hunting expedition said the judge was found in the morning, having apparently died peacefully. A pillow was over his head.
Trump and several right-wing media outlets smelled a plot — or at least created one.
“They say they found the pillow on his face, which is a pretty unusual place to find a pillow,” Trump told a conservative radio show.
“Over his head, not his face,” the ranch owner had to repeat.
#QAnon
Maybe the weirdest conspiracy theory community is QAnon, a movement that believes an anonymous government insider, known as Q, is secretly leaking details of an epic battle between Trump and the Deep State seeking his overthrow.
Followers of Q look for coded messages online and in Trump’s speeches for signals and supposedly leaked intel.
Yahoo News reported this month that the FBI has identified QAnon among other conspiracy hoaxes as posing a domestic terrorism threat.
But if the people of QAnon feel lonely in their paranoid world, they have a surprisingly sympathetic ear in the White House.
Trump has retweeted Q theories on numerous occasions and administration officials have met with open sympathizers. At Trump campaign rallies, Q insignia are increasingly part of the landscape.
Best of all? Some QAnon fans think they know Q’s real identity: Donald Trump.






Democrats laid out their case Monday for the impeachment of Donald Trump, branding the US president a “clear and present danger” to national security as they prepared to issue formal charges against him.
Four months after a whistleblower sparked the investigation of Trump for seeking illicit political favors from Ukraine, Democrats said there was abundant evidence that he had committed bribery, abused his power and obstructed the investigation.
“President Trump’s persistent and continuing effort to coerce a foreign country to help him cheat to win an election is a clear and present danger to our free and fair elections and to our national security,” said Daniel Goldman, counsel for the Democrats.
Facing an almost certain vote in the coming weeks to make Trump the third American leader impeached and placed on trial, top Republican Doug Collins countered that the effort was simply “a good PR move” for Democrats ahead of next year’s presidential elections.
“It’s all political,” Collins said. “Where’s the impeachable offense? Why are we here?”
The allegations came in a contentious House Judiciary Committee hearing in which Republicans repeatedly punched back, while Trump himself denounced the inquiry as a “disgrace” and “hoax.”
Fueling the partisan divisions in Washington, the Republicans marshaled a Department of Justice report released Monday as ammunition for a counteroffensive.
The DoJ’s inspector general said its review of investigations into four Trump aides did not find evidence of “political bias” in the decisions to open the probes.
The report effectively rebutted Trump’s repeated claims that the FBI illegally spied on his campaign — but Republicans seized on its findings that the bureau committed “numerous serious factual errors” related to the investigations.
Tempers erupt
Tempers flared as Republicans tried to derail the hearing with procedural moves.
A lone protester was ejected after shouting in the president’s defense — the first time such an outburst has occurred over the last month of public impeachment hearings.
“We voted for Donald Trump (and) Americans are sick of your impeachment scam,” he shouted as he was removed by police. “Trump is innocent!”
The president is accused of abusing his powers by pressuring Ukraine to announce an investigation into former vice president Joe Biden, his potential challenger in the 2020 election.
Trump also pressed Kiev to investigate a widely-dismissed allegation that the Ukraine government helped the Democrats in the 2016 election.
Barry Berke, an attorney for the Democrats, said there was “significant proof” of wrongdoing as he laid out the evidence collected by the House Intelligence Committee in a 10-week investigation.
“In the scheme to pressure Ukraine… the person at the center of that scheme was President Donald Trump,” he told the hearing.
Berke played videos of testimony by top US diplomats involved with Ukraine supporting the charges, and footage of Trump claiming he has “the right to do whatever I want as president.”
Witnesses produced documents “that provide uncontroverted, clear and overwhelming evidence that President Trump did this scheme,” Berke said.
‘Baloney’
Republican attorney Stephen Castor, tasked with disputing the evidence, said Democrats were simply attacking Trump for policies they do not agree with.
“Democrats are obsessed with impeaching the president,” he said, calling evidence from the transcript of a July 25 phone call between Trump and Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky “baloney.”
In that call, Trump told Zelensky he wanted “a favor,” including an investigation of Biden and the 2016 conspiracy theory.
While Democrats have cried foul over the Biden attacks, Republicans said it was a conflict of interest at best that Biden’s son Hunter served on the board of a Ukrainian energy firm while his father was US vice president.
“On this record, there is a legitimate basis for President Trump to have concern about Hunter Biden’s role on Burisma’s board,” Castor said.
Castor also argued that Democrats needed to take more time to accumulate evidence and build their case.
Democrats rejected that argument, noting Trump has blocked his top advisors from testifying and refused to hand over White House records.
“There is a constitutional remedy for a president who undermines our national security and our elections, who puts his own interest before those of the country — that remedy is impeachment,” said Judiciary Committee chairman Jerry Nadler.
Democrats appear determined to push through to a full House vote on formal articles of impeachment before year end.
That could see Trump stand trial in the Senate in January.
Given the solid Republican majority in the Senate and a two-thirds threshold for conviction, it is almost certain he will be acquitted.






Sitting next to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Trump said the leaders “formally announce the first stage of a phenomenal new trade agreement,” adding “this is a big chunk, but in the fairly near future we are going to have a lot more.”
Trump, using the threat of tariffs, has sought a comprehensive trade deal to scale back the US trade deficit with Japan and to benefit American farmers — a key base of political support.
Trump said that a trade agreement would be important to “reduce our chronic trade deficit.”
It would open new markets to “some $7 billion” in American products, he said, adding that US tariffs on Japanese goods would drop in return.
He said he hoped to sign a “very comprehensive deal” with Japan soon that means “really big dollars for our farmers and for our ranchers.”
“We are working on phase II already,” he added.
As Trump and Abe met on the side of the UN General Assembly in New York, the Japanese prime minister said a deal would be “a win-win solution for Japan and the United States.”
Hanging over the negotiations has been Trump’s November 17 deadline to decide whether to go ahead with stiff punitive duties on car imports from Japan, as well as from the European Union.
Last year, the total US trade deficit with Japan was $58 billion, and Japan exported $51 billion worth of cars to the American market, according to government data.
American farmers and ranchers are eager for a trade deal as they are highly dependent on export markets.
Japan is the US’s third-largest agricultural export market, and Japanese consumers bought a quarter of American beef and pork exports last year — $1.6 billion in pork and more than $2 billion worth of US beef.






WASHINGTON, DC – NOVEMBER 15: Former advisor to U.S. President Donald Trump, Roger Stone (2nd L), departs the E. Barrett Prettyman United States Courthouse with his wife Nydia (R) after being found guilty of obstructing a congressional investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 election on November 15, 2019 in Washington, DC. Stone faced seven felony charges and was found guilty on all counts.   Win McNamee/Getty Images/AFP
Stone was arrested in January at his home in Florida on charges brought by then special counsel Robert Mueller as part of the Russia investigation.
A jury of nine women and three men found the 67-year-old guilty on all seven counts arising from his 2017 testimony to lawmakers investigating Kremlin efforts to damage Trump’s election rival, Hillary Clinton.
The sixth and final Trump aide to be convicted of charges brought by Mueller, Stone’s sentencing has been set for February 6 and he faces up to 20 years in prison.
The president immediately responded to the verdict on Twitter, suggesting that it was a “double standard like never seen before in the history of our country.”
Stone had argued that the charges against him were politically-motivated but prosecutors demonstrated how he lied and bullied witnesses to protect Trump from embarrassment.
Jurors notably saw texts in which Stone pressured an associate to lie about being an intermediary between him and WikiLeaks’ founder Julian Assange, calling the witness “a rat” and threatening his dog.
The case unveiled new details on the Trump campaign’s interest in Democratic Party computer files hacked by Russia and made public by WikiLeaks.
Former campaign official Rick Gates testified that he was in the car when Trump took a call from Stone in late July 2016. After the call, Trump told Gates that “more information would be coming” about WikiLeaks.
The allegation casts doubt on the president’s claim to Mueller’s investigators that he did not recall discussing the organization with his longtime aide.
Stone’s trial played out just blocks from House impeachment hearings into Trump’s efforts to pressure Ukraine into investigating his potential 2020 rival Joe Biden.
Stone began his career as a political trickster for Richard Nixon, whose face he has tattooed on his back. 
Critics say his practice of political “dark arts” over the last 50 years has been a major contributor to the so-called “swamp” of corruption that Trump has vowed to drain.






Rejecting criticism that he is stoking America’s smouldering racial divisions, Trump attacked African-American civil rights activist Al Sharpton.
“Al is a con man, a troublemaker, always looking for a score. Just doing his thing,” Trump tweeted, adding that Sharpton “Hates Whites & Cops!”
He struck out after Sharpton one of the best known, if controversial, black figures in US politics — expressed support for Baltimore, a majority black city near Washington that has also come in for a presidential bashing.
Over the weekend, Trump described Baltimore as a “rat and rodent infested mess” unfit for humans and blamed this on Elijah Cummings, the Democrat who represents much of the city in Congress.
Cummings, who is black, heads the House Oversight Committee, one of the powerful bodies mounting politically sensitive probes into everything from Trump’s Russia connections to tax records.
Sharpton told reporters in Baltimore that Trump “has a particular venom for blacks and people of color.”
“He can say what he wants. Call me a troublemaker. Yes, I make trouble for bigots,” Sharpton said.
Trump did not hold back, either.
“So tired of listening to the same old Bull…,” he wrote, spicing up his tweet with an abbreviated profanity.
“Next, Reverend Al will show up to complain & protest. Nothing will get done for the people in need.”
Loyal pastors 
Trump said earlier this month that he doesn’t have “a racist bone in my body.”
He routinely touts statistics showing low unemployment in the African-American community, as well as a program designed to encourage investment in forgotten inner city neighborhoods.
On Monday he boosted that narrative by meeting at the White House with black pastors.
“The president is concerned about the whole nation, about everybody in the nation,” said Alveda King, a niece of the slain civil rights icon Martin Luther King.
Bill Owens, a pastor who said that about 20 people attended the previously unannounced, closed-door meeting with Trump, told reporters it was “hard to believe” that Trump is racist.
Combative election campaign 
The Baltimore feud comes less than two weeks after the House of Representatives — in a rare vote — condemned the president for “racist” comments targeting four first-term Democratic congresswomen nicknamed the “Squad.” All of them are from ethnic minorities.
“Why don’t they go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came,” Trump asked about the women, only one of whom, Ilhan Omar, was born abroad, arriving two decades ago as a refugee from Somalia.
The “go back” statement ignited a backlash from critics painting Trump as an open racist.
But each of the provocative statements, including the assault on Baltimore, appears to boost a planned push to raise political temperatures ahead of the 2020 presidential election where Trump wants to frame Democratic opponents as the real extremists on the left.
“If the Democrats are going to defend the Radical Left ‘Squad’ and King Elijah’s Baltimore Fail, it will be a long road to 2020,” Trump tweeted Monday. Cory Booker, an African-American running for the Democratic nomination, called the growing row “painful.”
“This is a moral, defining moment in America,” he said.Kamala Harris, another candidate who is also black, said she was “proud” to have her campaign headquarters in Cummings’ district and called Trump’s attack “disgraceful.”
The dollar steadied versus the euro and yen amid renewed trade fears as Trump adopted a hard line on China.
The pound meanwhile dropped as British MPs returned to parliament one day after a momentous Supreme Court ruling that Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s decision to suspend parliament ahead of Brexit was unlawful.
“Markets have taken a bit of tumble on fears US president Trump could be impeached, while the (UK) drama… is just as intoxicating as the Brexit drama rumbles on,” noted Neil Wilson, chief market analyst at trading group Markets.com.
In a dramatic move Tuesday in the US, House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi launched a formal impeachment inquiry.
Wall Street closed with sizeable losses ahead of her expected announcement.
Democrats accuse Trump of abuse of power in a reported attempt to pressure the newly-installed president of Ukraine to open a corruption investigation into his lead challenger for the White House, Joe Biden, and Biden’s son Hunter.
Focus in Europe meanwhile was on the UK parliament after Tuesday’s Supreme Court judgement dented Johnson’s authority, prompting calls for his resignation and casting further doubt on his promise to pull Britain out of the European Union on October 31, come what may.
Concerns over US and British political turmoil added to worries over international trade after Trump ripped into China at the UN, declaring that the time of Beijing’s “abuses” of the system was “over”.
Touting what he argued were the benefits of his tariff war with China, Trump reiterated his hope that a trade agreement “beneficial to both countries” could be struck.
“But as I said very clearly, I will not accept a bad deal for the American people,” he said.
Oil prices took their own hit, also after data indicated a build-up in US crude inventories.
“Oil markets continue to sell as risk sentiment remains sour after Trump accused China of currency manipulation, theft of intellectual property and product dumping,” said Stephen Innes, Asia Pacific market strategist at AxiTrader.
“Mind you, this is nothing shockingly new but coming on the cusp of trade negotiations, it doesn’t exactly suggest he’s laying down the welcome mat for the Chinese delegation.”
The confidential telegrams from ambassador Kim Darroch created a political firestorm in London after their publication in the Mail on Sunday newspaper.
One of them called the Trump administration “uniquely disfunctional” while another characterised the US leader as “incompetent” and “insecure”.
Their release came just a month after Trump’s state visit to Britain during which he visibly enjoyed himself while dining with Queen Elizabeth II and touring Buckingham Palace with his family.
They also threatened to complicate London’s efforts to strike a new trade deal with Washington that could help mitigate potential damage from Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.
Trump fired back by saying that people in his administration were “not big fans” of London’s man in Washington.
“The ambassador has not served the UK well, I can tell you that,” Trump told reporters on Sunday.
“We are not big fans of that man and he has not served the UK well. So I can understand it, and I can say things about him but I won’t bother.”
 ‘Very serious consequences’ 
UK officials took turns defending Darroch as a professional who was carrying out his duties by providing “frank” assessments of the latest developments in the White House.
“We need to find out how it happened, not least to give confidence to our teams all over the world that they can continue to give us their frank assessments,” Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said on Monday.
“I hope we get to the bottom of it, and of course there will be very serious consequences if and when we find out who was responsible.”
The Daily Telegraph newspaper said such memos are seen by up to 100 people working in the Foreign Office and other government departments.
“But it would require a single official or minister to have access to the whole cache, inevitably casting the spotlight on senior ministers,” it wrote.
The immediate suspicion of the London papers fell on Brexit-backing players in a power struggle within Britain’s governing Conservative Party.
British politics are in for a major revamp once Prime Minister Theresa May ends her three-year spell in power later this month.
Brexiteer former foreign minister Boris Johnson is the favourite to replace her in a leadership contest against Hunt.
The winner will get to appoint his own US envoy by the time Darroch’s term expires at the end of the year.
But commentators note the official widely tipped for the Washington job was less enthusiastic about Brexit than Johnson or some members of his team.
“There have been reports that Mark Sedwill, the current cabinet secretary, is being lined up for the position,” The Guardian’s diplomatic editor Patrick Wintour wrote.
But Trump “may be suspicious of Sedwill, and would prefer a true Brexiter”.
Wintour wrote that Sedwill “may not fill that bill, but Nigel Farage — who pretty openly campaigned for the job before Darroch’s appointment in 2016 — does”.
Farage is an anti-EU populist whose new Brexit Party won nearly a third of the vote in European elections in May, and has met Trump several times.
Farage on Monday called Darroch’s memos “pretty irresponsible” but played down interest in the Washington post.
“I’m not a diplomat, and I think that’s quite an understatement,” he told BBC radio.
But Farage added that he “could be very useful” in forging a better relationship “with an administration that contains friends of mine”.
(FILES) In this file photo taken on June 30, 2019 North Korea’s leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump cross south of the Military Demarcation Line that divides North and South Korea, after Trump briefly stepped over to the northern side, in the Joint Security Area (JSA) of Panmunjom in the Demilitarized zone (DMZ). – President Donald Trump warned on December 8, 2019, that North Korea’s Kim Jong Un had “everything” to lose through hostility towards the United States after Pyongyang said it had carried out a major new weapons test (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un engaged in mutual insults and threats of devastation in 2017, sending tensions soaring before a diplomatic rapprochement the following year.
Pyongyang has set Washington an end-of-year time limit to offer it new concessions in deadlocked nuclear negotiations and has said it will adopt an unspecified “new way” if nothing acceptable is forthcoming.
Denuclearisation negotiations have been at a standstill since a summit in Hanoi broke up in February.
Trump has indicated that the option of military action was still on the table while downplaying Pyongyang’s actions, saying the North’s leader would not want to “interfere” with the upcoming US presidential elections.
“I’d be surprised if North Korea acted hostilely,” Trump said Saturday.
But Kim Yong Chol, who served as the North’s counterpart to US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo until the collapse of the Hanoi meeting, slammed Trump’s “odd words and expression”, referring to him as a “heedless and erratic old man”.
“Our action is for his surprise. So, if he does not get astonished, we will be irritated,” Kim, now the chairman of the Korea Asia-Pacific Peace Committee, said in a statement carried by the official KCNA news agency.
“This naturally indicates that Trump is an old man bereft of patience,” he said, adding: “From those words and expressions we can read how irritated he is now.”
The official noted that the North Korean leader had not used “any irritating expression towards the US president as yet”, but warned his “understanding” of Trump could change.
“He must understand that his own style bluffing and hypocrisy sound rather abnormal and unrealistic to us,” Kim said. “We have nothing more to lose.”
The North has raised tensions in recent months with a series of assertive statements and multiple weapons tests — including a “very important test” at its key satellite launch site at the weekend — as its negotiating time limit approaches. 
Kim’s New Year speech, a key political set-piece in the isolated country, is also due on January 1.
On Thursday, the North’s vice foreign minister Choe Son Hui warned of again referring to Trump as a “dotard” — Pyongyang’s favoured nickname for the US president at the height of tensions in 2017.
Another senior official said last week that what gift the US receives for Christmas will depend entirely on Washington’s actions.
Their first meeting in Singapore last year took place in a blaze of publicity  the first-ever encounter between a leader of the nuclear-armed North and a sitting US president, whose forces and their allies fought each other to a stalemate in the 1950-53 Korean War.
That summit produced a vaguely-worded pledge about denuclearisation, but a second meeting in Hanoi in February intended to put flesh on those bones broke up without agreement.
Contact between the two sides has since been minimal  with Pyongyang issuing frequent criticisms of the US position — but the two leaders have exchanged a series of letters and Trump turned to Twitter on Saturday to invite Kim to a third diplomatic date.
“If Chairman Kim of North Korea sees this, I would meet him at the Border/DMZ just to shake his hand and say Hello(?)!,” Trump tweeted from Osaka in Japan, where he was attending a G20 summit before flying to Seoul.
He later said he would have “no problem” stepping into the North with Kim  in what would be a dramatic re-enactment of the extraordinary scene last year when the young leader invited South Korean President Moon Jae-in to walk over the Military Demarcation Line that forms the border between the Koreas.
“Sure I would, I would. I’d feel very comfortable doing that. I’d have no problem,” Trump told reporters.
It was not clear whether Kim would attend the rendezvous.
In an unusually fast and public response, within hours of Trump’s tweet the North’s official KCNA news agency quoted Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son Hui as saying the offer was “a very interesting suggestion” but that no official request had been received.
Cheong Seong-chang, a senior researcher at the Sejong Institute in Seoul, said the comments indicated Kim had “practically accepted” Trump’s invitation.
“If he (Kim) isn’t interested he would not release such a statement to begin with.”
Speculation grew that something was afoot when US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo skipped a G20 dinner Friday without giving a reason.
“We’ll see. If he is there, we will see each other for two minutes,” said Trump.
Later Saturday, when he was asked about the meeting at a dinner with Moon in Seoul, he said: “We’re gonna see. They’re working things out right now.” 
‘Barren no-man’s land’ 
A meeting in the DMZ would make a powerful visual statement, but analysts were divided over its potential impact.
The four-kilometre-wide (2.5 miles) zone, running for 250 kilometres, is where the front line lay when the Korean War ended with a ceasefire rather than a peace treaty, and is described as the world’s last Cold War frontier.
“The meeting, however short, will have a huge impact as the DMZ symbolises the military tension between North Korea and the United States,” said Koh Yu-hwan, a professor at Dongguk University in Seoul.
However Robert Kelly of Pusan National University derided Trump’s invitation as “emblematic of why the Trump NK effort is a farce: thrown-together; last-minute; made-for-TV”.
It was driven by Trump’s “lust for optics and drama rather than substance” and “a photo-op for the 2020 election”, he tweeted.
But John Delury of Yonsei University in Seoul said a meeting in the “barren no man’s land that embodies the unhealed wound of post-WWII division, the Korean War, and 70 years of animosity” would help improve ties.
“It’s not just about denuclearisation and it’s not all about a deal — important as those are,” he said. “If Trump and Kim meet & can announce some kind of interim agreement, that’s great. If they meet and don’t, that’s ok too. If in the end they don’t meet, it’s good that Trump offered to.”
‘Historic setting’  
The DMZ has been a regular stop for US presidents visiting the South, a security ally — although Trump’s helicopter was forced to turn back by fog in 2017.
And Moon — who will also be going to the DMZ on Sunday — and Kim held their first two summits last year at Panmunjom, a “truce village” on the border.
Trump could leverage the “historic setting” to send a clear message to Pyongyang on what a compromise agreement might look like, said Harry Kazianis of the Center for the National Interest.
The US could offer to suspend, rather than remove, some of the UN Security Council sanctions in exchange for the full closure of the North’s Yongbyon nuclear facility, he suggested.
“Such a formulation would give Pyongyang the economic incentives it needs to jump-start its economy while giving Trump an important foreign policy victory.”






More than anybody else, Mr. Trump rode on the crest of‘nationalistic and emotive’ issues and sentiments which he played on during his electioneering, to get into the White House. “America for Americans” is no longer a mantra, but is fast becoming a way of life and the compass for diplomatic/trade relations with the rest of the world. The United Kingdom (UK) on its part, decided in June 2016, through a referendum, to ‘pull out’ of the European Union (EU), after close to fifty years membership of the bloc. London is so bent on achieving this objective that in the past three years, the ‘Brexit’ (British exit from EU) process has practically supplanted governance of the United Kingdom. 
The tortuous process to realizing Brexit has ‘consumed’ two successive Prime Ministers (Mr. David Cameron and Ms. Theresa May) of the UK. Indeed, the Brexit is already assuming a crisis dimension, with the latest report saying that EU citizens in the UK were “denied voting” in the recent elections of the European Parliament. According to the report, “non-British EU citizens were turned away from polling stations on Thursday (May 23, 2019) after being told they were not registered to vote in the United Kingdom for the elections of the European Parliament.”
And for the US, the nationalism ‘crusade’ is being waged on several fronts: walls to separate it from neighbouring countries are being erected; tariffs are being raised to discourage the importation of a number of goods (and encourage local production or use of some substitutes); crude oil (shale oil) production is deliberately being encouraged to support cutting down importation or to stop importation as soon as possible; longstanding memberships of some trading blocs or treaties are being cancelled or reviewed; immigration and naturalization requirements are being tightened, etc. 
Already a stand-off between the U.S. and China with respect to tariffs is fast degenerating into a ‘trade war’ with ripple effects on industrial production and trade in various parts of the globe. Indeed, a few days ago, Washington “effectively banned U.S. firms from doing business with Huawei, the world’s largest telecoms network gear maker, citing national security concerns.” China on its own part has been taking reprisal measures.
How long this war shall last as well as its dimensions, are yet unknown; but as it lingers, most nations of the world (including Nigeria) are bound to experience some of its spill-over effects. Already, prices of stocks, industrial production and some other economic activities are crashing in certain climes. According to GTI Research, “Asian shares hobbled near four-month lows on Friday (May 24, 2019) and crude oil plunged on worries the US-China trade spat was developing into a more entrenched strategic dispute between the world’s two largest economies, pushing investors to safe-haven assets.” 
For Nigeria, Washington’s cutting down on importation of crude oil (or increase in the production of shale oil) translates directly to a shrinking of market and likely drop in revenue. Indeed, as at February this year, the US had cut monthly oil imports from Nigeria by almost 80 per cent: from 4.87 million barrels per day (mbpd) in January to a mere 540,000 barrels per day in February. The US bought 5.18 million bpd in December 2018, down from 10.3 million bpd in January 2018, according to data from Energy Information Administration (EIA). When this loss of market is added to the restrictive Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) oil supply quota for Nigeria in the face of bourgeoning shale oil from the US, the prospect gets grim. 
Still in pursuit of national interest, the US Commerce Department said on Thursday, May 23, 2019, that Washington was proposing a new rule to impose anti-subsidy duties on products from countries that undervalue their currencies against the dollar. This will likely lead to higher tariffs on some products from many countries, including China, Japan, South Korea, India, Germany, etc. The Commerce Department said the proposed rule would amend the normal countervailing duty process to include new criteria for currency undervaluation. “This change puts foreign exporters on notice that the Department of Commerce can countervail currency subsidies that harm US industries”, Commerce Secretary, Wilbur Ross reportedly said in a statement, adding that “foreign nations would no longer be able to use currency policies to the disadvantage of American workers and businesses.”
In a similar vein, the US government mid-May 2019, changed the rules for the issuance of visasto Nigerians, a development one tabloid captioned: ‘Trump tightens US visa rules for Nigerians with drop box ban.’ Under the new rules, “all applicants in Nigeria seeking a non-immigrant visa to the United States must apply online and will be required to appear in person at the US embassy in Abuja or US Consulate General in Lagos to submit the application for review.” The new rules came under the US New Immigration Policy (NIP) tagged “Build America”, which seeks to increase the standard of security of visa application to prevent people of questionable reputation, economic immigrants and people without travel history from getting US visa. But as the title aptly says: “Build America” signposts barefaced nationalism, exclusionism and deliberate reduction in the number of Nigerians entering the US. And today it is visa, tomorrow who knows what instrument Washington will use.
Statistics show that Nigeria accounted for over 25 per cent of non-immigrant US visas issued to Africans in 2018 alone—but this is bound to change with the new order. Already, the Nigerian government is reported to have protested the new rules—but to no avail. Who knows the fate of other African countries, as the ‘nationalism hurricane’ keeps spreading. Will AfCFTA offer any reprieve?
•Okeke, a practising Economist and Consultant, wrote from Lagos
This picture taken on the morning of October 2, 2019 and released by North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) on October 3, 2019 shows the test-firing of “the new-type SLBM Pukguksong-3” in the waters off Wonsan Bay of the East Sea of Korea. – North Korea successfully test-fired a “new-type” of submarine-launched ballistic missile, state media reported on October 3, after Washington voiced alarm at the move just days before the planned resumption of stalled nuclear talks. (Photo by KCNA VIA KNS / KCNA VIA KNS / AFP)
North Korea’s Kim Myong Gil and Stephen Biegun, the special envoy of US President Donald Trump, are part of the teams at an island off Stockholm.
The first cars with tinted windows started arriving just after 9:00 am (0700 GMT).North Korea frequently couples diplomatic overtures with military moves as a way of maintaining pressure on negotiating partners, analysts say, and many believe this weapons system gives it added leverage.
Pyongyang tested what it called a “super-large” rocket on Wednesday just hours after it said it was willing to resume working-level talks with Washington.
Similar-level talks on North Korea’s nuclear disarmament were held in Stockholm in March 2018 and then in January this year.
Kim Myong Gil said he was “optimistic” about the talks, speaking in Beijing on his way to the Swedish capital.
Washington has been eagerly awaiting a resumption of the dialogue, which has virtually stalled after a Hanoi meeting in late February between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
North Korea claimed to have entered a new phase in its defence capability with Wednesday’s test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile — the most provocative since Pyongyang began a dialogue with Washington in 2018.
The Pentagon said Thursday the missile seems to have been launched from a “sea-based platform” and not a submarine.
Trump has said he sees no problem with a string of short-range rocket tests conducted previously by North Korea, while insisting his personal ties with the North’s leader remain good.
‘Vertical mode’ 
Photos carried by Pyongyang’s official Rodong Sinmun newspaper showed a black and white missile emerging from the water and appearing to shoot into the sky.
The images also showed a small towing vessel next to the missile, which analysts said indicates the test was conducted from a submersible barge rather than an actual submarine, and that the system was in its early stages.
“The new-type ballistic missile was fired in vertical mode” in the waters off Wonsan Bay, the Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) reported, identifying the weapon as a Pukguksong-3 and saying it “ushered in a new phase in containing the outside forces’ threat.”
The United Nations Security Council meanwhile is expected to hold closed-door talks early next week on the latest test, diplomats said.
The talks were requested by Britain, France and Germany, as the European powers push for the world body to keep up pressure on Pyongyang which is under heavy US and UN sanctions over its weapons program.North Korea is banned from ballistic missile launches by Security Council resolutions.






The “Heartless” rapper and father of four spoke about his new album, politics and religion during the interview and also revealed that this Christmas, he plans to release a new “Sunday Service album” called ‘Jesus is Born’.
He said it is “just fact” that he is “the greatest artist in human existence”, and poked fun at those who were offended when he donned the infamous red “Make America Great Again” cap last year, which showed his support for controversial president Donald Trump. He said:
“Give me some other examples where someone is saying what isn’t culturally what you’re supposed to say … Give me an example where someone is saying what you’re not supposed to say. You don’t want to say it, do you liberal? 
And now – I am unquestionably, undoubtedly, the greatest human artist of all time. It’s not even a question at this point. It’s just a fact. For the greatest artist in human existence to put a red hat on was God’s practical joke to all liberals. Like, ‘No, not Kanye!”
Kanye West
The “Famous” hit maker who also spoke about his recent conversion to Christianity also made it known that he wants to let people know “what Jesus has done” for him and he believes his “job is to spread the gospel” and let people know that he’s “free” now that he’s “a son of God”. He said:
“Now that I’m in service to Christ, my job is to spread the gospel, to let people know what Jesus has done for me. I’ve spread a lot of things. There was a time I was letting you know what high fashion had done for me, I was letting you know what the Hennessey had done for me, but now I’m letting you know what Jesus has done for me, and in that I’m no longer a slave, I’m a son now, a son of God. I’m free.”
Speaking on his Sunday Service performance at Coachella and his Yeezus tour, which included a Jesus Christ lookalike, he said:
“God was using me and it lined up amazing, like, literally the Sunday was Easter Sunday”, West said of his performance at Coachella.
Of his Yeezus tour, West went on:
 “[God] is saying, ‘Let me take this Nebuchadnezzar-type character’ – Nebuchadnezzar was the king of Babylon, and he looked at his entire kingdom and said, ‘I did this.’ I stood on the top of the mountain talking about Yeezus, saying, ‘I’m a God’—I had a guy dressed as Jesus.”
West also discussed his bid for the 2024 US presidency, saying that he is “likely” to run for president.
“There will be a time when I will be President of the United States and I will remember…any founder that didn’t have the capacity to understand culturally what we’re doing.”
On his ongoing beef with Drake, West said:
“Me and Drake had this disagreement and he refused to speak to me for six months. That was so painful…You cannot be in service to God and be mad at your brother next door…I go to Drake’s house with no security and just leave my number. God is funny. Drake lives four blocks down the street from me. So that shows you that God has a sense of humour. Now, liberals love art, right?”
US President Donald Trump listens during a Cabinet Meeting at the White House on October 21, 2019 in Washington,DC. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Trump’s self-inflicted wounds are making it harder for some Republicans to remain quiet or unwaveringly loyal during what could be an inflection point in his presidency.
Democrats are readying articles of impeachment, the catalyst being Trump’s July phone call to his Ukrainian counterpart in which he urged the European ally to investigate his political rivals.
No sitting Republican lawmaker has publicly expressed their intent to vote for Trump’s impeachment in the House of Representatives, or for Senate conviction if the process gets that far.
But some have inched closer to backing the process.
“I think we are getting to that point” where an increasing number of Republicans could support impeachment, retired GOP congressman Charlie Dent told CNN Monday, adding he has spoken with current lawmakers in his party who are “exasperated” by Trump.
Senator Lindsey Graham, one of Trump’s fiercest defenders in Congress, in recent days expressed openness to impeachment proceedings if new evidence of wrongdoing by Trump emerges.
“I mean… show me something that… is a crime,” Graham, who has lambasted Trump’s Syria withdrawal, told Axios in a Tuesday interview published Sunday.
“If you could show me that, you know, Trump actually was engaging in a quid pro quo, outside the phone call, that would be very disturbing.”
Graham has since expressed optimism that Trump will reach a viable solution in Syria. But his criticisms resonate in a Congress where Republicans have feared defying the president or antagonizing his base.
Trump stands accused of seeking to condition congressionally mandated military aid to Ukraine on that country mounting an investigation of Democratic presidential hopeful Joe Biden and his son Hunter, who did business in Ukraine.
For his part, the president remains confident that his party has his back. 
“I think I have great Republican support,” he told reporters Monday.
Graham has said he sees no impeachable behavior by Trump on the call with Ukraine.
But others have. John Kasich, a former congressman, and Ohio governor said Friday he has been pushed “across the Rubicon” and would vote to impeach if he were still in the House.
That followed a wild White House news conference by Trump chief of staff Mick Mulvaney who announced that Trump’s own Florida resort had been chosen for next year’s G7 summit, and acknowledged there was a quid pro quo on withholding aid to Ukraine.
Mulvaney walked back his quid pro quo comments amid an angry backlash, but his announcement of Trump National Doral as the G7 site infuriated several Republicans.
When Trump phoned into a meeting between Mulvaney and moderate Republicans and learned they would not defend his decision, Trump scrapped the Doral plan, The New York Times reported.
– More facts needed –
With frustration building, congressman Francis Rooney on Friday became the first Republican to publicly say he is considering supporting the impeachment inquiry.
“I don’t think you can rule (impeachment) out until you know all the facts,” the Florida lawmaker told CNN.
Rooney also announced he will not seek re-election next year, perhaps allowing himself to speak more critically of Trump.
If Trump gets impeached by simple majority in the House — and Dent said he believes he will — the process shifts to a trial in the Senate, where the party’s current leading dissident, Senator Mitt Romney, could have some sway. 
The Republican 2012 presidential nominee has been sharply critical of Trump recently, telling Axios he believed it was a “shocking” mistake for Trump to seek foreign help investigating the Bidens.
“We certainly can’t have presidents asking foreign countries to provide something of political value,” he said. “That is, after all, against the law.”
As for a prospective Senate trial that could remove the president, “I just want to get as much information as we can, make an assessment consistent with the law and the Constitution,” he said.
Conviction requires a two-thirds majority, meaning out of 53 Republicans in the 100-member Senate, at least 20 would need to vote against Trump.






US President Donald Trump.(Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)
Consular officers will only be allowed to issue visas to prospective immigrants who can prove they “will not impose a substantial burden” on the US health care system, according to a proclamation authored by Trump.
“Lawful immigrants are about three times more likely than United States citizens to lack health insurance,” Trump said in the proclamation. 
“Immigrants who enter this country should not further saddle our healthcare system, and subsequently American taxpayers, with higher costs.”
The measure will go into effect on November 3.
Trump made cracking down on immigration a key part of his 2016 presidential campaign platform.
He has pushed wide-ranging immigration law reforms, while tasking authorities with carrying out mass deportations of people in the US illegally.
Last week Washington also announced plans to dramatically lower its ceiling on a decades-old refugee resettlement program by 40 percent.






Speaking at a press-conference following the G20 summit in Japan, Putin said Western liberalism is “devouring itself” and defended Russia’s ban on “gay propoganda”, after criticism from musician Elton John.
“In some European countries parents are told that girls can no longer wear skirts to school? What is this?” Putin said in a rambling monologue blasting policies meant to encourage tolerance.
“There is a real overreach and this liberal idea begins devouring itself,” he said. 
“There are all kinds of things now — they came up with six or five genders: transformers, trans… I don’t even understand what it is.”
He said parts of society are “rather aggressively coercing” the majority to accept new attitudes. 
“You can’t impose your point of view by force,” he said.
“Representatives of the liberal idea impose certain sexual education in schools, parents don’t want it and are practically jailed…people are fed up,” he said.
“This may explain the Trump phenomenon, his victory, this is why unhappy people take to streets in Western Europe.”
While everyone is blaming Russia for political meddling, these are the real “deep reasons” for discontent, he said.
Elton John on Friday addressed Putin with a series of tweets after Putin said Russia had “no problem” with LGBT people and wants everyone to be happy. 
John said it did not match Russia’s actions, following recent censorship of his film Rocketman, with distributors “removing all references to my finding true happiness” through the relationship with his husband David.
“This feels like hypocrisy to me,” he wrote.
But Putin on Saturday said Elton John is a “musical genius” who is “wrong”. 
“We have a very calm attitude about LGBT community,” he said. “We have a law everyone criticises us for, the law on banning propoganda of homosexualism to minors.”
“But listen, let a person grow up, become an adult, and decide who he is. Leave the children alone.”
Elton John’s movie Rocketman was rated 18+, so minors in Russia would not see it in cinemas.






Battling the deepest crisis of his presidency, Trump in a series of tweets railed against accusations that he should be impeached for urging Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate Joe Biden, his potential 2020 White House challenger.
"Like every American, I deserve to meet my accuser, especially when this accuser, the so-called 'Whistleblower,' represented a perfect conversation with a foreign leader in a totally inaccurate and fraudulent way," Trumped said.
Trump accused top Democratic lawmaker Adam Schiff of lying to Congress last week about what Trump said to Zelensky in the July phone call.
"He wrote down and read terrible things, then said it was from the mouth of the President of the United States. I want Schiff questioned at the highest level for Fraud & Treason," he wrote.
Trump's Republican aides have sought to turn the tables on Democrats pushing for his impeachment, insisting that the president was the true "whistleblower" as he had asked Ukraine to investigate Biden and his son for corruption.
"This individual is a saboteur trying to undermine a democratically elected government," Trump advisor Stephen Miller insisted on "Fox News Sunday."
"Getting to the bottom of a corruption scandal in Ukraine is in the American national interest."
Trump's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani -- who has emerged as his point man in the Ukraine scandal -- led the charge along with Miller in combative Sunday talk show appearances.
Brandishing what he said were affidavits incriminating Biden's son Hunter over his work at a Ukrainian company, Giuliani said Trump was duty bound to raise the issue with Kiev.
"If he hadn't asked them to investigate Biden, he would have violated the constitution," Giuliani told ABC's "This Week," charging that "Donald Trump was framed by the Democrats."
 'Honor your oath' 
The Democratic-led House of Representatives launched an official impeachment inquiry last week accusing Trump of a "mafia-like shakedown" of Zelensky aimed at damaging Biden.
Trump and his allies claim Biden, as Barack Obama's vice president, pressured Kiev to fire the country's top prosecutor to protect his son Hunter, who sat on the board of a gas company, Burisma Holdings, accused of corrupt practices.
Those allegations have largely been debunked and there has been no evidence of illegal conduct or wrongdoing in Ukraine by the Bidens.
But a transcript of the July call shows Trump pushing for Kiev to revisit the matter, saying both Giuliani and US Attorney General Bill Barr would be in touch.
For Democrats, that amounted to a smoking gun, leading Speaker Nancy Pelosi to finally approve an impeachment process she opposed as a risky distraction from the 2020 battle.
Pelosi on Sunday called for Trump to "speak the truth. Honor your oath of office to the Constitution of the United States."
"Don't make this any worse than it already is," she said.
Democrats have charged aggressively into the inquiry, ordering Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to turn over Ukraine-related documents and scheduling witness testimony.
On NBC's "Meet the Press," Schiff said he expected the whistleblower to testify "very soon" -- with all precautions taken to protect their identity.
'In harm's way'? 
CBS News released a letter from the whistleblower's lawyers to the acting director of national intelligence expressing concern that their "client will be put in harm's way."
"We expect this situation to worsen and become even more dangerous," the letter said, calling for "appropriate resources to ensure their safety."
Democrats have said articles of impeachment -- formal charges -- against Trump could be completed in as little as a month and swiftly voted on in the House, where the party has a majority.
The Biden campaign sent a letter Sunday to US TV networks to demanding they stop booking Giuliani for interviews, accusing him of "knowingly and willingly" lying.
Polls suggest public support is growing for the impeachment inquiry, with a new CBS survey showing 55 percent of Americans -- and nine in 10 Democrats -- approve.
But even if impeachment is approved in the House, Trump would be tried in the Senate -- where, for the moment, he appears able to count on a Republican majority to prevent conviction.






The Trump administration last month said it would use emergency powers to defy Congress and provide munitions, aircraft maintenance and other military components to Saudi Arabia along with the United Arab Emirates.
The move infuriated lawmakers who believe the weapons could be used to kill civilians in Yemen, where the Saudis and Emiratis are mounting an offensive and millions are at risk of starvation.
Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican who is usually in lockstep with Trump, voiced hope for “strong bipartisan support” in preventing the sales.
“While I understand that Saudi Arabia is a strategic ally, the behaviour of Mohammed bin Salman cannot be ignored. Now is not the time to do business as usual with Saudi Arabia,” Graham said, referring to the kingdom’s ambitious crown prince.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the administration would not follow the usual process of submitting the sales to Congress due to an emergency caused by Iran, Saudi Arabia’s regional rival which has backed the Huthi rebels who control much of Yemen.
The senators nonetheless said they would go ahead and introduce resolutions of disapproval — as they could for sales that are formally submitted — for each of the 22 arms deals.
The chances of success are uncertain as Trump could veto any disapproval resolutions, with the Senate and House of Representatives both needing two-thirds votes to override him.
Trump in April vetoed a resolution that would end US military support for the Saudi-led forces in Yemen.
Anger with Saudi Arabia has grown in Congress since the October killing of dissident writer Jamal Khashoggi, who wrote for The Washington Post and lived in Virginia.
He was strangled and his body dismembered after he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul to sort out marriage paperwork, according to Turkish and US officials.
Senator Chris Murphy, a Democrat who has been among the most outspoken critics of Saudi Arabia, said that only Congress could change the dynamics between the two countries.
“Selling more bombs to the Saudis simply means that the famine and cholera outbreak in Yemen will get worse, Iran will get stronger and al-Qaeda and ISIS will continue to flourish amidst the chaos of the civil war,” Murphy said.
“Saudi Arabia treats us like the junior partner in this relationship, chopping up US residents and torturing others, all the while demanding we remain silent and sell them more weapons,” he said.
Top negotiators expect to reconvene in Washington early next month after an acrimonious summer in which trade relations deteriorated sharply and both governments announced waves of new tariffs in a stand-off that is dragging on the global economy.
"We have agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to move the increased Tariffs on 250 Billion Dollars worth of goods (25% to 30%), from October 1st to October 15th," Trump tweeted late Wednesday.
He said the delay was requested by "Vice Premier of China, Liu He, and due to the fact that the People's Republic of China will be celebrating their 70th Anniversary," on October 1.
Early Wednesday, Beijing announced it was temporarily exempting some US exports from tariff increases, a gesture that lifted equity markets long buffeted by the ups and downs in the conflict now entering its second year.
"It was a big move," Trump told reporters at the White House. He reiterated that Beijing was under pressure to strike a bargain as its economy weakens, which he attributed to US actions.
However, the goods exempted do not include high-profile agricultural items like soybeans and pork that could be crucial to the ultimate success of any agreement.
The exemptions will become effective on September 17 and be valid for a year, according to the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council, which released two lists that include seafood products and anti-cancer drugs.
The lists mark the first time Beijing has announced products to be excluded from tariffs.
Other categories that will be spared include alfalfa pellets and fish feed, and the commission said it was also considering further exemptions.
Both sides imposed fresh tit-for-tat tariffs on September 1, adding to the duties that now cover hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of goods.
Trump initiated the trade war complaining that China engaged in unfair trade practices.
"These adjustments signal that China is more willing to make progress in the October trade talks, likely toward striking a 'narrow' agreement that involves China buying more US goods in exchange for the US suspending further tariff hikes," Barclays analysts said in a research note.
They said Beijing had been sounding a more "constructive" note in recent weeks over trade relations.
 Growing pressure 
But US businesses in China are increasingly pessimistic about their prospects.
A report released Wednesday said growing numbers of companies expect their revenues and investment in the local market to shrink.
The American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai's report said 47 percent surveyed said they expected to increase their investments in China in 2019, down from 62 percent last year.
Three-quarters of businesses surveyed said they opposed the use of punitive tariffs by the United States to force China into a trade deal.
China's economy grew 6.2 percent on-year in the second quarter, the lowest rate in nearly three decades -- a fact Trump highlighted on Wednesday.
Auto sales in China fell by 6.9 percent in August compared with the previous year, an official industry association said Wednesday, extending a slump.
Trump has said the protracted trade war is damaging China more than the United States, and China is "eating the tariffs." 
But experts have warned there are signs the US is also feeling the pinch, with job creation slowing across major industries last month.
Wall Street added to gains after Trump spoke, reflecting renewed hope an agreement could be reached to end the trade war. 
The benchmark Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 0.9 percent to close at 27,137.04.
Iran and Venezuela, the two nations in Trump’s crosshairs, are exempt from the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC’s) agreement to reduce output, even as member nations have deliberately cut more than planned, as group leader Saudi Arabia deepened its curbs.
Consequently, plus the losses in Iran and Venezuela, OPEC’s overall production has slumped by almost 1.7mbd this year, as tougher U.S. measures against Iran take effect this week, coming on top of action against Venezuela.
While Saudi Oil Minister, Khalid Al-Falih, has said the producer will seek to keep the market balanced, he has also signalled that OPEC and its allies including Russia, could extend output curbs until the year end.
For Nigeria, a spate of disruptions and security concerns, including kidnappings, are threatening to hinder its surging oil exports.
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, and Total SA declared force majeure (due to circumstances beyond their control) on some of their Nigerian exports over the past week, a measure that allows companies to skip supply obligations. Chevron Corp.’s Nigerian unit said an idled well was interfered with.
Nigeria’s Bonny Light Crude dropped to $73.19, while the WTI Crude followed at $61.41 a barrel as at 4.50pm local time.
Indeed, OPEC and other oil producers in the cuts pact are following developments in Venezuela and other countries to ensure an energy crisis is avoided, Secretary-General, Mohammed Barkindo, said Thursday.
“Our objective remains as an organization that we will continue to work with all member countries as well as the participating countries in the declaration of cooperation to avoid any energy crisis in the world despite current travails in several of our member countries,” Barkindo said. He refers to the agreement by OPEC and other producers led by Russia to reduce oil output.
With two OPEC members under sanctions, Iran and Venezuela, “we are conscious of the times that we have found ourselves. But the good news is that talking to all member countries we remain committed, we remain focused on our principal objective as an organisation to ensure stability at all times in the oil market, to ensure that we avoid any energy crisis that will impact on the global economy.”
In accordance with plans to draw down inventories, and remove 1.2 million b/d from global markets, OPEC cancelled a meeting in April, to re-evaluate its policy and its next meeting – a Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee meeting will take place on May 19 in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
The next full OPEC meeting is scheduled for June when “all options will be reviewed,” Barkindo said.
“All I can say is that the group is committed to stay united, is committed to ensure that our objective of not returning or slipping back into the chaos that we witnessed in the market following the longest cycle that we have seen from 2014 to 2016 does not repeat itself, including the volatility that we have seen in the fourth quarter of 2018,” he added.
Amendments include removing a rule that automatically conveys the same protections to threatened species and endangered species and allowing information on the economic impact to be gathered when making determinations on how wildlife is listed.
In a statement characterizing the changes as “improvements,” Interior Secretary David Bernhardt said: “The best way to uphold the Endangered Species Act is to do everything we can to ensure it remains effective in achieving its ultimate goal — recovery of our rarest species.
“An effectively administered Act ensures more resources can go where they will do the most good: on-the-ground conservation,” added the former oil and gas lobbyist.
Biden, the leading contender for the Democratic party’s nomination in next year’s presidential election, hit back, saying the amendments could push some species toward oblivion.
“For decades, the Endangered Species Act has protected our most vulnerable wildlife from extinction. Now, President Trump wants to throw it all away,” he tweeted.
“At a time when climate change is pushing our planet to the brink, we should strengthen protections — not weaken them.”
He was joined in his criticism by Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, whose state is home to 296 protected plant and animal species. 
Conservation groups also reacted with dismay, vowing legal challenges against what the nonprofit Sierra Club dubbed the “Trump Extinction plan.”
Kristen Boyles, an attorney for Earthjustice, told AFP: “Prior to today, a newly-listed threatened species would immediately have protections in place, there was sort of a default rule.” 
But “a species could be listed right now and it would have no further protections than it did before it was listed under the act” until a species-specific review takes place, she added, and even then it was not clear how robust those protections would be.
‘Death by a thousand cuts’ 
Other changes include modifications allowing companies to build roads, pipelines, mines, and other industrial projects in an area designated as a “critical habitat” for a species — paving the way for its gradual destruction so long as each individual step is sufficiently modest. 
“So it allows this death by a thousand cuts,” said Boyles.
Federal agencies may also begin gathering information on the economic impact of listing animals as threatened, despite the fact that the statute as passed by Congress explicitly states that science alone should determine if species should be protected.
Species like the gray wolf saw their population decimated in the early 20th century, but staged a remarkable comeback thanks to the law — which was signed by Republican president Richard Nixon in 1973 — and are now legally hunted in the Northern Rockies.
Similarly, there are today some 10,000 nesting pairs of bald eagles, the national symbol of the US, from a low of 417 in 1963.
A 2018 paper published in the journal Conservation Letters found that about four in five Americans support the act, while one in 10 opposes it, and support for the law has remained stable over the past two decades.
“The great majority of Americans value our natural heritage and find inspiration in it. This administration seeks to trash what so many value, what excites our children and generations to come,” said Duke University conservation ecology professor Stuart Pimm.
Since taking office, the Trump administration has targeted more than 80 environmental and health regulations in the name of easing regulatory burdens on business. 
Environmentalists have fought back with lawsuits, and some rollbacks have later been reinstated.
The attorneys general of California and Massachusetts announced their intention to sue the administration over the changes to the act, and other Democratic-led states could follow.
More than two dozen lawmakers barged into a secure US Capitol meeting room known as a SCIF, delaying the Wednesday testimony of a Pentagon official who was the latest witness in the democrats-led investigation of possible abuse of power by Trump over his pressure campaign against Ukraine.
The White House has been confronted with a series of depositions by current or former administration officials in recent weeks as Democrats layout the most serious case against the president in his nearly three years in office.
But none appears as explosive and damning as that of the top US envoy to Ukraine, Bill Taylor, who on Tuesday testified to lawmakers. 
They said Taylor offered startling details that showed a quid pro quo of military aid for political assistance was offered.
Trump this week demanded Republicans "get tougher and fight" back.
On Wednesday, he issued a stern warning to any Republicans who might turn on him, describing so-called Never Trumpers within his own party as "human scum."
With Trump railing against process -- "Does anybody think this is fair?" he raged on Twitter -- a few dozen conservative backers sought to bring the conflict to a head by marching uninvited into the deposition room.
It is a violation of US House rules to enter SCIFs -- secure facilities designed to prevent electronic eavesdropping -- without permission, and concerns were raised that lawmakers were committing serious security breaches by entering with their mobile phones and other devices.
Some of the Republican encroachers apparently began tweeting from inside.
"BREAKING: I led over 30 of my colleagues into the SCIF where (House Intelligence Committee chairman) Adam Schiff is holding secret impeachment depositions. Still, inside - more details to come," tweeted Congressman Matt Gaetz, a fierce Trump defender.
 Complaint filed 
The House Homeland Security Committee chairman, Bennie Thompson, wrote the sergeant at arms complaining that lawmakers blatantly breached security by "intentionally" bringing their electronic devices into the SCIF.
"As such, I am requesting you take action with respect to the members involved in the breach," Thompson wrote.
The sit-in delayed the deposition of Laura Cooper, a deputy assistant secretary of defence responsible for Ukraine policy, for several hours. 
Cooper began testifying later in the afternoon, a staffer told AFP, and that evening Schiff tweeted she "did her lawful duty and answered questions from both parties."
"She did so notwithstanding efforts by the President to stop her, and when those failed, efforts by his GOP allies in Congress to do the same," he wrote.
Steve Scalise, the number two House Republican who joined the protest, said lawmakers were being denied access as Democrats were "trying to impeach the president of the United States with a one-sided set of rules."
All members of the three House committees conducting the investigation, including more than 40 House Republicans -- among them Vice President Mike Pence's brother, congressman Greg Pence -- are permitted to attend the depositions and question witnesses.
Several of those with full access to the hearing joined other Republicans in the protest, arguing that the impeachment process deserves more transparency.
 'Freaked out' 
Republicans opposed to the impeachment process have settled on the new strategy of attacking the process itself, claiming it is invalid because the House has not taken a floor vote to launch an impeachment inquiry, and that it lacks transparency.
Taylor delivered a withering deposition Tuesday that some Democrats have described as the most damning testimony yet.
Number two Senate Republican John Thune acknowledged that the picture painted by the envoy according to reports was "not a good one."
In a 15-page opening statement to lawmakers, Taylor provided extensive details of how Trump sought to withhold US military aid to exert pressure on his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodymyr Zelensky, to launch an investigation of his political rival Joe Biden and his son. 
Taylor said in his statement that the US ambassador to the European Union, Gordon Sondland, told him that "'everything' was dependent on such an announcement, including security assistance."
"Bill Taylor gave a devastating opening statement yesterday, they're freaked out, (and) they're trying to stop this investigation," Democratic congressman Ted Lieu told reporters.
The article made waves when it was published over the weekend, re-examining sexual assault allegations aired last year at Kavanaugh’s polarizing Senate confirmation hearing.
The article dealt mainly with one of his accusers, Deborah Ramirez, who alleged that Kavanaugh waved his penis in her face at a drunken dormitory party when both were students at Yale.
But it also included a previously unreported account by a Yale classmate who said he saw Kavanaugh expose himself to a different female student at another party.
The report triggered fierce reaction, including from several Democratic 2020 presidential hopefuls who called for a new investigation, or even impeachment.
On Monday, The Times said its story failed to include key details: that the alleged victim in the new account declined to be interviewed and “friends say she does not recall the episode.”
“That information has been added to the article,” the Times said in an editor’s note.
Trump seized on the change to launch a full-throated attack on the Times, urging Kavanaugh to sue for libel and suggesting the Justice Department “come to his rescue.”
“DO YOU BELIEVE WHAT THESE HORRIBLE PEOPLE WILL DO OR SAY,” Trump tweeted. “They are looking to destroy, and influence his opinions – but played the game badly. They should be sued!”
Trump accused the media of working in lockstep “with their partner,” the Democrats.
 Trump calls for resignations 
“The one who is actually being assaulted is Justice Kavanaugh – Assaulted by lies and Fake News!” he said.
The US president later called in a tweet “for the Resignation of everybody at The New York Times involved in the Kavanaugh SMEAR story.”
Kavanaugh has categorically denied engaging in sexual misconduct.
The Times account was adapted from a forthcoming book by the article’s authors, which details an assertion by the Yale classmate that friends of Kavanaugh “pushed his penis into the hand of a female student.”
The witness notified US senators and the Federal Bureau of Investigation about the account, but the FBI did not investigate, according to the Times.
Last September, an outcry by Democrats and some concerned Republicans prompted a one-week suspension of Kavanaugh’s contentious confirmation process so that the FBI could conduct a fast-track investigation of allegations against him.
The agency reportedly declined to question dozens of potential witnesses or corroborators.
Several Republicans joined Trump in condemning the Times and the Democrats’ calls for Kavanaugh’s impeachment.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell deplored “another poorly-sourced, thinly-reported, unsubstantiated allegation” against Kavanaugh.
“We all remember this pattern from last time around: Shoot first and correct the facts later,” he told senators.
Senator Lindsey Graham, whose ardent defence of Kavanaugh last year helped salvage his nomination, charged Democrats with seeking to “ruin Justice Kavanaugh’s life for political gain.”
“As Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I promise you Justice Kavanaugh will not be impeached over these scurrilous accusations,” Graham tweeted.
Protesters took to the streets again on Sunday, marching to the American consulate to call on Congress to pass a bill expressing support for the pro-democracy movement.
The proposed law could undermine Hong Kong's special US trade privileges by mandating regular checks on whether authorities were respecting the Basic Law that underpins the city's semi-autonomous status.
But Hong Kong's pro-Beijing Chief Executive Carrie Lam said that any change to its economic relationship with Washington would threaten "mutual benefits".
"It's extremely inappropriate for any country to interfere in Hong Kong's affairs," she told reporters.
"I hope that no more people in Hong Kong actively reach out to tell the United States to pass the act."
Beijing on Tuesday echoed Lam's remarks, with foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying saying: "We hope that they can withdraw their black hands in Hong Kong as soon as possible."
While some American politicians on both sides of the aisle have expressed support for the democratic goals of the protesters, President Donald Trump's administration has maintained a more hands-off approach while it fights a trade war with China.
Trump has called for a peaceful resolution to the political crisis and urged Beijing to not escalate with a violent crackdown.
But he has also said it is up to China to handle the protests.
Washington has rejected Beijing's allegations that it is backing the demonstrators and China has provided little evidence to back its claims beyond supportive statements from some US politicians.
Separately, more than 150 lawmakers in Britain have called on Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab to offer second citizenship and the right of abode to residents of Hong Kong.
That would "send a strong message to China that the people of Hong Kong are not alone", the open letter said.
 'Crazy destruction' 
Hong Kong's protests were lit by a plan to allow extraditions to the authoritarian mainland, seen by opponents as the latest move by China to chip away at the city's unique freedoms.
After Beijing and city leaders took a hard line, the movement snowballed into a broader campaign calling for greater democracy, police accountability and an amnesty for those arrested.
The protests show no signs of abating, and Lam has struck an uncompromising tone for much of the last three months.
But last week she made a surprise concession, announcing the full withdrawal of the extradition bill.
That was not enough to mollify activists, who denounced the move as too little and too late, and huge crowds thronged the streets again over the weekend.
In what has become a familiar pattern, Sunday's main daytime rally to the US consulate passed off peacefully.
But as evening set in, riot police chased groups of hardcore protesters who blocked roads, vandalised nearby subway stations and set makeshift barricades on fire.
Hong Kong police on Tuesday said off-duty officers will be carrying extendable batons to be used in case of emergency.
Lam once again denounced demonstrators during her Tuesday press conference.
"The crazy destruction made at MTR stations shows that protesters have acted beyond expressing their views on the extradition law and other demands," she said, using the name of the firm that runs the city's underground rail service.
"The escalating and continuous violence cannot solve the problems we face in Hong Kong."
Meanwhile, in Berlin, Joshua Wong, a prominent face in the pro-democracy movement, met Germany's foreign minister Heiko Maas -- a move that drew ire from China, which called the meeting "disrespectful".
US President Donald Trump (Photo by SAUL LOEB / AFP)
Trump, in a series of tweets, said he had spoken to Erdogan and “he very much wants the ceasefire, or pause, to work.
“Likewise, the Kurds want it, and the ultimate solution, to happen,” the US president said.
“There is good will on both sides & a really good chance for success,” he said. “The U.S. has secured the Oil, & the ISIS Fighters are double secured by Kurds & Turkey.”
Trump also said that “some” European countries, which he did not name, “are now willing, for the first time, to take the (Islamic State group) Fighters that came from their nations.”
“This is good news, but should have been done after WE captured them,” he said. “Anyway, big progress being made!!!!”
Trump also tweeted “DEFEAT TERRORISM!” in all capital letters in response to a tweet by Erdogan saying “Mr. President, many more lives will be saved when we defeat terrorism, which is humanity’s arch enemy.”
Earlier Friday, Erdogan warned that Ankara would resume military operations against Kurdish forces in Syria if they did not withdraw from a “safe zone” along the Turkey-Syria border.
Turkey has agreed to suspend its offensive for five days in northern Syria while Kurdish fighters withdraw from the area, after high-stake talks with US Vice President Mike Pence in Ankara.






US President Donald Trump addresses the Israeli American Council National Summit 2019 at the Diplomat Beach Resort in Hollywood, Florida on December 7, 2019. (Photo by Mandel NGAN / AFP)
“Kim Jong Un is too smart and has far too much to lose, everything actually, if he acts in a hostile way,” Trump tweeted in response to the unspecified test at the Sohae space launch center.
The announcement of Saturday’s test came just hours after Trump said he would be “surprised” by any hostile action from the North, emphasizing his “very good relationship” with Kim.
Trump and Kim engaged in months of mutual insults and threats of devastation in 2017, sending tensions soaring before a diplomatic rapprochement the following year.
The pair have met three times since June 2018 but with little progress towards denuclearization. Pyongyang has set Washington a December 31 deadline to make new concessions to kickstart stalled talks.
“North Korea, under the leadership of Kim Jong Un, has tremendous economic potential, but it must denuclearize as promised,” Trump tweeted. 
“NATO, China, Russia, Japan, and the entire world is unified on this issue!”
Writing that Kim had “signed a strong Denuclearization Agreement” at their June 2018 summit in Singapore,” Trump warned: “He does not want to void his special relationship with the President of the United States or interfere with the U.S. Presidential Election in November.”
Separately, interviewed on the CBS TV news program “Face the Nation,” US National Security Advisor Robert O’Brien was asked whether North Korea was preparing to restart nuclear tests.
“I hope not. That would be a mistake on the part of North Korea,” O’Brien said.
“Kim Jong Un promised to denuclearize North Korea,” O’Brien said. “And we expect him to live up to the promise he made at the summit in Singapore. And we hope he’ll do so.”
On Saturday, South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in spoke by phone with Trump and agreed to maintain dialogue with Pyongyang.
The 30-minute talk was the first conversation between Trump and the South Korean leader since they met at the UN General Assembly in New York in September.
“The two leaders shared an assessment that the current situation on the Korean peninsula is grave,” said South Korean presidential spokeswoman Ko Min-jung, adding that Trump had requested the call.
‘Very important test’ 
A spokesman for North Korea’s Academy of National Defense Science said Saturday’s “very important test” would have an “important effect” on changing the “strategic position” of North Korea, in a statement carried by the official KCNA news agency.
The statement provided no further details on the test.
A senior US administration official earlier said Washington had seen reports of a test and was “coordinating closely with allies and partners.”
Trump indicated that military action was still possible when he was asked about Pyongyang on the sidelines of a NATO summit in Britain last week.
North Korea fired back that if the United States used military force, it would take “prompt corresponding actions at any level.”
UN diplomats fear that the North will resume long-range nuclear or ballistic tests if progress is not made soon in talks with Washington.Sohae, on North Korea’s northwest coast, is ostensibly a facility designed for putting satellites into orbit.
But Pyongyang has carried out several rocket launches there that were condemned by the US and others as disguised long-range ballistic missile tests.
Following the Singapore summit, Trump said Kim had agreed to destroy “a major missile engine testing site,” without naming the facility.Kim then agreed to shutter the Sohae site during a summit last year with Moon in Pyongyang as part of trust-building measures.






NEW YORK, NEW YORK – NOVEMBER 12: US President Donald Trump speaks at the Economic Club of New York on November 12, 2019 in New York City. Trump, speaking to business leaders and others in the financial community, spoke about the state of the U.S. economy and the prolonged trade talks with China.   Spencer Platt/Getty Images/AFP
The spark that lit the Ukraine affair, according to officials who have already appeared behind closed doors before Congress, was Rudy Giuliani, the voluble former mayor of New York who signed up as Trump’s personal lawyer.
Determined to rebut the narrative that Russian electoral interference, which was documented by US intelligence, brought Trump to power, Giuliani pitched an alternative theory — that not Russia but Ukraine, which has been battling Moscow-backed separatists, intervened in the 2016 vote, and in favour not of Trump but his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.
Despite the lack of evidence, the Ukraine theory gained currency among Trump supporters, who zeroed in on the role of Hunter Biden, the son of former vice president Joe Biden — who is seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Trump next year.
Hunter Biden, whose troubled life has included struggles with alcohol, served on the board of Burisma, a Ukrainian energy company, but insisted he did not lobby his father.
 Fixation on Ukraine 
Giuliani claimed that Joe Biden, then in office, demanded that Ukraine dismiss a prosecutor to save his son from investigations.
There is little evidence behind the theory as other Western nations and the IMF also sought to remove the prosecutor, Viktor Shokin, who had been tarnished by corruption allegations.
Giuliani, according to numerous officials, was instrumental in securing the early departure in May of the US ambassador to Ukraine, Marie Yovanovitch, after a whispering campaign that she supported the Democrats.
She told Congress that the State Department earlier had asked her if she wanted to extend her tenure into 2020.
William Taylor, the US diplomat who became an acting ambassador in Kiev, said that Yovanovitch was “caught in a web of political machinations.”
Also in May, Ukraine inaugurated a new president, a 41-year-old comedian and political newcomer Volodymyr Zelensky. Returning from his inauguration, the US special envoy on Ukraine, Kurt Volker, and the US ambassador to the European Union, Gordon Sondland, implored Trump to meet Zelensky.
Sondland later said that Trump’s response was, “go talk to Rudy.” And the former mayor was ready — according to Sondland, Giuliani said Zelensky needed to promise publicly to investigate both Burisma and Ukraine’s alleged role in the 2016 election.
In a released text message, Taylor told Sondland, a political appointee who donated money to Trump, that Zelensky was concerned that Ukraine was “merely as an instrument” in US electoral politics.
Volker, a respected veteran diplomat who resigned in September, was even more blunt, telling lawmakers that in seeking an investigation of Burisma, “Giuliani was interested in Biden.”
 Criticism of ‘drug deal’ 
Trump accepted to talk to Zelensky by telephone and ramped up the pressure in the run-up. On July 10, Sondland told Ukrainian officials in Washington that a summit with Trump was conditioned on the desired investigations.
John Bolton, a Republican stalwart who was then Trump’s national security adviser, ended the meeting and ordered that it be reported to a White House lawyer, purportedly saying he did not want to be part of a “drug deal.”
But Volker in a text message confirmed to the Ukrainians that the White House would find a date for Zelensky’s visit only if the new president convinced Trump in the phone call that he was serious about an investigation.
The trio of Volker, Taylor and Sondland, however, apparently did not tell the Ukrainians of a major step — the freezing of a vital chunk of military aid to Kiev needed to fight Russian-backed forces.
Trump and Zelensky spoke by telephone on July 25. The Ukrainian leader thanked the United States for providing anti-tank missiles and Trump replied, “I would like you to do us a favour, though.”
Trump, according to a release by the White House, asked for Ukraine to launch the investigations. 
Trump complained of Robert Mueller’s probe into Russian interference in the 2016 election, telling Zelensky that “they say a lot of it started with Ukraine” and also mentioning “a lot of talk about Biden’s son.”
The US leader said that Giuliani would follow up with Zelensky and denounced “that woman” — Yovanovitch, who had been sent back to Washington — as “bad news.”
The conversation so alarmed Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman, a Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, that he alerted the internal legal chief.
Under pressure, the White House in September put out what it said was a transcript of the call, setting off the impeachment process by Democrats.
 Quid pro quo? 
The impeachment hearings will focus on a key question — whether Trump held up the military aid for partisan ends.
On the sidelines of World War II commemorations in Poland on September 1, Zelensky asked about the assistance when he met Vice President Mike Pence, who travelled instead of Trump as the president said he would monitor a hurricane.
In Warsaw, Sondland informed a Ukrainian official that aid would not resume unless Zelensky publicly pledged to conduct a probe.
At issue in the impeachment hearings is if Trump insisted on a “quid pro quo,” Latin for demanding one thing for another. Taylor, citing Sondland, said the orders on aid came explicitly from Trump. 
The tycoon turned president denied the quid pro quo and said he had a “perfect” conversation with Zelensky.
Sondland, in a text message released by Volker, said that Trump “has been crystal clear” that there was no quid pro quo, an assertion he made to House investigators.
But Sondland, seen as a vital witness for Trump, recently reversed himself, saying that aid “likely” would not resume without Zelensky’s pledge to investigate.
Here are five things to know about Greenland.
 Ice-covered 'Green earth' 
The name "Greenland" is misleading as the two million square kilometre island, the world's largest island that is not a continent, has three quarters bordering the Arctic Ocean and is 85 percent covered in ice.
Greenland was a Danish colony until 1953 when it became part of the Danish Realm. 
In 1979, it gained "autonomous territory" status. Today, the island's economy depends heavily on subsidies from Copenhagen.
Its 55,000 inhabitants -- of whom 17,000 reside in the capital Nuuk -- are more than 90 percent Inuit, an indigenous group from Central Asia.
 Global powers converge 
Greenland has been essential to US defence since World War II, when it was a base for monitoring Nazi ships and submarines passing through the Arctic on their way to the North Atlantic.
In 1943, the US Air Force built its farthest-north air base at Thule, crucial during the Cold War as the first line of monitoring against a potential Russian attack.
With a population of 600, the base is today part of a NATO mission, operating satellite monitoring and strategic missile detection systems.
As the polar ice sheet melts, opening up potentially major shipping routes, other global powers have moved in.
Russia has become more active, and, while it has no geographical claim to the region, newcomer China has also begun to show interest in the region.
China's massive commercial shipping industry would benefit from the new polar routes.
In January 2018, Beijing unveiled its "Polar Silk Road" strategy to extend its economic influence through the Arctic. 
China began sending scientific missions to Greenland already in 2004, and a Chinese company has gained mining rights for rare earths.
Last year, a Chinese government-backed group also offered to build three new international airports in Greenland, sparking alarm in Copenhagen and Washington.
That plan was ultimately nixed, in exchange for Danish funding and a pledge of support from the Pentagon.
 At the heart of global warming 
This massive territory is on the front line of melting Arctic ice in a region that is warming twice as fast as the rest of the planet.
According to the World Meteorological Organization, Greenland's ocean levels continue to rise by about 3.3 millimetres per year.
This phenomenon appears to be accelerating: sea levels have jumped by 25 to 30 percent faster between 2004 and 2015, compared with the 1993-2004 period.
The melting of the Greenland Ice Sheet accounts for 25 percent of this rise, up from five percent 20 years ago. And this is likely to increase as glaciers and ice caps melt.
If Greenland's ice sheet was to disappear completely, it would raise the ocean level by seven metres (23 feet).
 Rich soil 
Nonetheless, Greenland's melting ice has a silver lining. 
The region has vast untapped reserves of oil, gas and minerals, as well as fish and shrimp stocks.
Greenland's subsoil is rich in gold, rubies and uranium, as well as iron, aluminium, nickel, platinum, tungsten, titanium, and copper, which could attract foreign investment.
Under the melting glaciers lies mineral-rich rock flour that could be used, for example, as fertiliser for dry soils in Africa and South America.   
However, this substance infuriates the Greenlanders as it shuts off access to the fjords.
 Previous US interest 
Trump's bid for Greenland is not a first for the US.
In 1867, the State Department expressed interest in the island, and in 1946 President Harry S. Truman offered $100 million in gold, or parts of Alaska, in exchange for Greenland.
And you can't blame Trump for trying -- Denmark has previously sold the territory to Washington.
In 1916, the Scandinavian country agreed to sell the Danish West Indies to the US for $25 million in gold, which then became the US Virgin Islands.
In extended exchanges that highlighted the party's ideological schism over health care and the cost of shifting to a government-run universal coverage system, Biden was often in the limelight, occasionally going on the offensive against rivals.
The 10 candidates agreed on the need to defeat Trump, yet the president's record was not a mainstay of the event. There was no mention of a potential impeachment, something Democratic lawmakers are grappling with.
Next, to Biden, progressive Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has risen to joint-second alongside Sanders in polling, breezed through largely unscathed, avoiding personal attacks and crisply outlining policy proposals.
Analysts saw Biden's first half-hour when he defended his health plans against Warren and Sanders and challenged them on the costs of their proposals, as among his most engaging debate performances.

Read More: Eyes on Biden as Democrats ready for third 2020 debate

But by the second half of the nearly three-hour marathon the frontrunner appeared less steady and Julian Castro, a former cabinet colleague under Barack Obama, launched an unwarranted attack on the 76-year-old over a memory lapse that hadn't happened.
Democratic presidential hopeful Former Vice President Joe Biden speaks during the third Democratic primary debate of the 2020 presidential campaign season hosted by ABC News in partnership with Univision at Texas Southern University in Houston, Texas on September 12, 2019. (Photo by Robyn BECK / AFP) / ALTERNATIVE CROP
- 'Biden's shakiness' -
Biden survived the jab, and it was a low point of the three debates for Castro, who was immediately upbraided by commentators pointing out that it was he, and not Biden, who had his facts wrong.
Democratic presidential hopeful Former Vice President Joe Biden speaks during the third Democratic primary debate of the 2020 presidential campaign season hosted by ABC News in partnership with Univision at Texas Southern University in Houston, Texas on September 12, 2019. (Photo by Robyn BECK / AFP) / ALTERNATIVE CROP
The exchange nevertheless brought into the open what many have wondered behind closed doors: whether Biden has the stamina and mental acuity to prosecute an exhausting campaign over the next 14 months.
"There's a lot of people who are concerned about Joe Biden's ability to carry the ball across the end line without fumbling," Senator Cory Booker, who departed from his normal position as a courteous unifier, told CNN after the showdown.
"And I think that Castro has some really legitimate concerns about, can (Biden) be someone in a long, grueling campaign that can get the ball over the line?"
Biden has maintained a solid grip atop the polls throughout the campaign, despite slippage in the past week as Warren has gained ground.
He is widely seen as the most electable against Trump -- but being the top contender brings more scrutiny. 
Straightforward questions were answered with incoherent word salads and Twitter collectively raised its eyebrows as Biden referred to Sanders as "the president." 
Memes were plastered across social media and heads scratched as he made an outdated reference to record players while answering a question about slavery. 
Five months before the first nomination votes are cast in Iowa, the evening may not have moved the needle dramatically, but Biden's rocky moments at debates and campaign events may chip away at voters, University of Virginia politics expert Kyle Kondik said.
"I do wonder if Biden's shakiness, displayed persistently over time, may eventually erode the advantage he currently enjoys as the candidate perceived by most as the best option against Trump," Kondik told AFP.
"But if that is a problem, it may take months for it to do him damage we can see in polling."
- 'A house divided' -
Several lower-tier candidates fared well Thursday including ex-congressman Beto O'Rourke, whose passionate appeal for an end to gun violence after two mass shootings last month in his native Texas -- and his controversial call for mandatory buybacks of military-style assault weapons -- drew headlines.
Pete Buttigieg won plaudits for his frank and eloquent recollection of coming out as gay while mayor of South Bend, Indiana.
Senator Amy Klobuchar, positioned in the same moderate lane as Biden, had a solid performance, rising above the fray during heated personal bickering.
"A house divided cannot stand," she declared. "That is not how we're going to win this."
Warren, of Massachusetts, shared the stage with Biden for the first time, but maintained discipline and focused on her message of ending the "corruption" of a system she says rewards the wealthy and punishes the working class.
"Warren is behaving like a frontrunner, and she is unquestionably one of the leading candidates," Kondik said. 
"As such, she has less incentive to mix it up with the others."
Acting US homeland security chief Kevin McAleenan has resigned, US President Donald Trump announced late Friday, becoming the latest in a long list of top officials to leave the administration.
“Kevin McAleenan has done an outstanding job as Acting Secretary of Homeland Security. We have worked well together with Border Crossings being way down,” Trump said in a tweet.
“Kevin now, after many years in Government, wants to spend more time with his family and go to the private sector. Congratulations Kevin, on a job well done!”
McAleenan served in the role for only six months, replacing Kirstjen Nielsen, who sat at the helm of the powerful agency for 18 months.
During McAleenan’s brief tenure, the Trump administration stepped up efforts to discourage an exodus of migrants from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador by asking Mexico to impede their transit and requiring them to apply for asylum in the first country they enter — meaning either Guatemala or Mexico.
“I want to thank the President for the opportunity to serve alongside the men and women of the Department of Homeland Security,” McAleenan said in a tweet.
“With his support, over the last 6 months, we have made tremendous progress mitigating the border security and humanitarian crisis we faced this year, by reducing unlawful crossings, partnering with governments in the region to counter human smugglers and address the causes of migration, and deploy additional border security resources.”
Trump said he would announce a new acting homeland security secretary next week, and that there were “many wonderful candidates.”
The announcement came as Trump blasted what he described as the United States’ “weak, ineffective and dangerous” immigration laws on Twitter.
The memo outlined other changes including charging asylum seekers to file work permit applications, and barring people who enter the US illegally — or attempt to — from receiving temporary work permits before being approved for relief.
It also directed officials to revoke the work permits of immigrants who receive final deportation orders.
The order came two weeks after Attorney General Bill Barr directed immigration judges to no longer allow asylum seekers apprehended after entering the country illegally to post bail, according the US media reports.
Trump has staked his presidency on his insistence that the United States is being overrun by migrants and asylum seekers.
But opponents, mostly in the Democratic Party, say his push for building more barriers on the Mexican border and his almost daily denunciations of migrants as dangerous criminals incites racial hatred.
The president declared an emergency to bypass Congress and unlock billions of dollars in funding for his controversial wall project, and has also deployed troops to the border with Mexico.
Trump had made several controversial statements a day earlier alongside Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan at the White House, including that he had plans that would ensure a speedy end to the Afghan conflict, but which would wipe the country “off the face of the Earth”.
His comments sparked outrage in Afghanistan, where the war-weary and traumatised population is already worried about a precipitous pull-out of US forces and whether that means a quick return to Taliban rule and civil war.
Afghanistan “would be gone. It would be over in literally, in 10 days”, Trump said, adding, “I don’t want to go that route”, and that he didn’t want to kill millions.
Trump’s statements came as his peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, travelled to Kabul ahead of a new round of peace talks with the Taliban.
The insurgents — who now control or influence about half of Afghanistan’s territory — have been talking to Washington about a possible deal that would see foreign military forces quit in return for various security guarantees.
“The government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan calls for clarification on the US president’s statements expressed at a meeting with the Pakistan prime minister, via diplomatic means and channels,” Ghani’s office said in a statement.
Trump also said Pakistan would help the US “extricate” itself from Afghanistan, adding there was “tremendous potential” in the relationship between Washington and Islamabad.
Afghanistan has long blamed Pakistan for fuelling the Afghan conflict and for supporting the Taliban — which Islamabad denies — and Ghani is furious about being continually sidelined by the US in ongoing peace talks with the Taliban.
 ‘Threatened and humiliated’ 
Pakistan’s influence over the Taliban, who have waged an insurgency since they were ousted by US-led forces in 2001, is seen as key in facilitating a political settlement with Ghani’s government.
“While the Afghan government supports the US efforts for ensuring peace in Afghanistan, the government underscores that foreign heads of state cannot determine Afghanistan’s fate in absence of the Afghan leadership,” Ghani’s office said.
Everyday Afghans took to social media to vent after Trump’s comments.
“I feel shocked, threatened and humiliated. We trusted Americans to help us in the war against terror, and now President Trump is threatening us with genocide,” Facebook user Mohd Farhad wrote.
“I cannot believe he said it. I know it is him but I’m still in shock,” Nadene Ghouri, another Facebook user, wrote.
Trump’s envoy Khalilzad meanwhile arrived in Kabul on Tuesday ahead of a trip to the Qatari capital Doha for what will be the eighth round of direct talks he’s held with the Taliban.
Those discussions are expected to begin in the coming days, with Ghani and his administration once again locked out.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has set an ambitious goal of securing a deal by September 1.
In a tweet, Khalilzad said he would be “focused on achieving an enduring peace that ends the war, ensures terrorists do not use Afghanistan to threaten the US, honours the sacrifices that the US, our allies & Afghans made, and cements an enduring relationship w/ Afghanistan”.
Even as the US pushes for a deal, violence in Afghanistan has in recent weeks intensified with both Afghan forces and the Taliban claiming to have inflicted heavy casualties on each other.
“I don’t believe the four Congresswomen are capable of loving our Country,” Trump tweeted of ethnic-minority first-term Democrats Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Rashida Tlaib, Ilhan Omar and Ayanna Pressley.
“They should apologize to America (and Israel) for the horrible (hateful) things they have said. They are destroying the Democrat Party, but are weak & insecure people who can never destroy our great Nation!” the president tweeted.
The comments come a week after Trump sparked a firestorm of outrage when he attacked the left-leaning lawmakers with a series of tweets, saying they should “go back” to their countries of origin.
The group — three of whom were born in the United States — are of Hispanic, Arab, Somali and African-American descent.
In a rare move, Trump was rebuked by the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives on Tuesday for “racist comments” against the women, who are known as the “Squad.”
The following day chants of “Send her back!” broke out at the president’s “Make America Great Again” rally in Greenville, North Carolina, when he again attacked the women.
To the delight of his thousands of supporters, Trump described Omar and the other Democrats as “left-wing ideologues (who) see our nation as a force of evil.”
Speech paused for chants 
Trump later said there was “great energy” at the rally but claimed he was not pleased by the taunts.
“I was not happy when I heard that chant,” he said. “I didn’t like that they did it, and I started speaking quickly” to move on with his speech.
Television footage showed, however, that Trump let the chant continue for more than 13 seconds, only resuming speaking as they died down.
The president demonstrated in Greenville that without a Democratic presidential candidate to focus on yet, he plans to make inflammatory attacks on the Squad a centerpiece of his 2020 re-election strategy.
Several of the Democratic presidential hopefuls who plan to run against him and a few of the Republicans have urged Trump to tone down the rhetoric.
But the president has made it clear — despite the risk of inflaming racial tensions and widening the partisan divide — that he believes he has latched on to a winning strategy.
Trump tapped into grievances among white blue-collar and rural Americans to eke out a narrow victory in 2016, winning 57 percent of white voters while his rival Hillary Clinton won 37 percent.
It was the first statement from Pyongyang on the talks since US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un agreed to their resumption at an impromptu meeting in the Demilitarized Zone in June, following months of deadlock between the two sides.
The joint drills have been held for years but were scaled down to facilitate dialogue with the North after Trump’s historic first summit with Kim in Singapore last year.
“If the military exercise goes ahead, it would affect the DPRK-US working-level talks,” an unnamed foreign ministry spokesperson said in comments carried by state news agency KCNA, using the official acronym for North Korea.
The official described next month’s drills as “clearly a breach” of a joint statement signed by the leaders in Singapore and hinted that Pyongyang may resume weapons tests in response.
Pyongyang’s moratorium on nuclear and long-range missile tests was a commitment aimed at improving bilateral relations and “not a legal document inscribed on a paper”, the official said.
“With the US unilaterally reneging on its commitments, we are gradually losing our justifications to follow through on the commitments we made with the US as well.”
Trump and Kim’s latest meeting took place as negotiations between Pyongyang and Washington were at a deadlock, following a rocky negotiation process brokered by Seoul after a thaw in tensions in early 2018.
During the encounter, Trump stepped into North Korean territory in the border village of Panmunjom, becoming the first US president to set foot on North Korean soil.
 ‘Very provocative’ drills 
There are close to 30,000 US troops stationed in South Korea, and their annual drills with tens of thousands of South Korean soldiers have always infuriated the North — with Pyongyang condemning the manoeuvres as provocative rehearsals for invasion.
But following the Singapore summit, Trump announced the suspension what he called Washington’s “very provocative” joint military exercises with South Korea.
A smaller-scale version of the exercises was last held in March, with more scheduled for August.
Washington has previously insisted on North Korea’s complete denuclearisation as a condition for lifting punishing US sanctions.
At the Singapore summit, the two adopted a vaguely-worded statement on “complete denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula” and agreed to “establish new US-DPRK relations”.
But failure to reach an agreement over sanctions relief and what the North was willing to give in return led to the collapse of the leaders’ second summit, which was held in February in Hanoi.
Pyongyang had taken “humanitarian measures without conditions” to implement the Singapore statement, the foreign ministry spokesperson said Tuesday, about the return of the remains of US service members killed during the 1950-53 Korean War.
Tensions were raised in May, during the standstill in negotiations between Trump and Kim, when North Korea fired short-range missiles for the first time since November 2017.
Trump cast himself as fully exonerated after Attorney General Bill Barr delivered a four-page memo to Congress on March 24 that he called a summary of the two-year probe’s key findings, telling lawmakers the evidence was insufficient to support criminal obstruction charges. 
The release of a redacted version of the full 448-page report on April 18, however, revealed that Mueller had detailed numerous attempts by the president to thwart the investigation.
The Washington Post said Mueller’s letter to Barr three days later complained that the attorney general’s memo “did not fully capture the context, nature and substance of this office’s work and conclusions.”
“There is now public confusion about critical aspects of the results of our investigation,” Mueller reportedly wrote, in stark language that apparently surprised Justice Department officials.
“This threatens to undermine a central purpose for which the Department appointed the Special Counsel: to assure full public confidence in the outcome of the investigations.”
Mueller declined to accuse Trump of a crime, referring to Justice Department policy precludes the indictment of a sitting president, but specifically said that what he had uncovered made him unable to exonerate the president.
Democrats in Congress are expected to question Barr at length over his role in the probe and interactions with Mueller as he appears for two days of hearings on Capitol Hill this week.
On Wednesday, several called for his resignation — with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi also weighing in.
“Attorney General Barr misled the public and owes the American people answers,” she said on Twitter. “It’s time for DOJ to release the full report & all underlying docs — and finally allow Mueller to testify. Americans deserve the facts. Barr must stop standing in the way.”
“Bill Barr needs to resign,” was California congressman Ro Khanna’s take. “He needs to resign tomorrow. At some point, we need to distinguish fact from spin.”
Mark Warner, the Democratic vice chairman of the powerful Senate intelligence committee, said Barr had “lost all credibility.”
“This is exactly why I said Mr Barr should never have been confirmed in the first place.”
 Sabotage 
A rift between the special counsel’s office and Barr, Mueller’s boss and longtime friend, appeared to emerge in the days following the release of the attorney general’s memo, as investigators reportedly let it be known through intermediaries that they felt frustrated by Barr’s representation of their work.
The New York Times pointed to what it said were instances of Barr taking Mueller’s words out of context in a manner that painted a less damaging picture of Trump’s behaviour and suggested that the president had no motive to obstruct justice.
Barr has also repeatedly said Mueller found “no collusion” between the Trump campaign and Russia — even though the special counsel’s report made a point of noting that he had not investigated “collusion,” which has no legal definition.
Mueller’s report — the culmination of a probe that had haunted Trump since the start of his presidency — confirmed that Russian operatives tried to help Trump defeat his Democratic rival Hillary Clinton, including by hacking into email accounts.
The probe found that Trump’s campaign knew of the sabotage attempt and took advantage of the impact on Clinton, but did not deliberately reach out to conspire with the Russians.
Several Democrats, notably presidential hopeful Senator Elizabeth Warren, have called for Trump to be impeached for welcoming a hostile power’s help and for allegedly obstructing the investigation after the election.
The White House has not commented on the letter but Trump’s lawyer Rudy Giuliani told CNN that Mueller “should have made a decision and shouldn’t be complaining or whining now that he didn’t get described correctly” on the obstruction issue.
Buttolph, a chief finance officer at Xentris Wireless, expects that his company will never return to China after completing a move that he describes as “a kind of business ‘head trauma’.”
“It’s a huge inconvenience, it’s a huge expense,” he told AFP after Xentris set up in the Philippines, Taiwan, and Vietnam since the trade war between the US and China erupted 18 months ago.
But manufacturing in other developing nations comes with risks, he admitted.
“Building up these supply chains took 30 years in China. China has a lot of infrastructures that some other countries don’t yet have.
“We are trying to have multiple locations certified for all of our products so that if all of a sudden there’s an issue with one of the locations, we just flip the switch.”
Reflecting on the impact of tariffs on China, he said: “We’re never going to be in that position again — diversification was one of the intentions we had.”
US President Donald Trump’s plan to enact 15 percent tariffs on $300 billion in consumer goods imported from China has forced some manufacturers such as Xentris to shift production from the country, while others have absorbed the tariff or raised prices.
The latest round of levies began on Sunday on about $112 billion worth of Chinese goods, according to an analysis by the Peterson Institute for International Economics. The remaining portion of the tariffs is set to take effect on December 15.
– Never going back? –
“We are leaving China and we have no immediate or long-term plans to ever go back,” Buttolph said, recalling how his company, which has 68 US employees, sought legal advice on the strategic outlook when the trade war began.
“(Some companies) anticipated that this whole thing was going to blow over and that Xi Jinping and Donald Trump would cut a deal. Our assumption early on was based on advice that this is going to be an ongoing, long-term problem.
“Chances are that it will never be the same in China. There were a lot of folks in the consumer electronic space who may have dragged their feet in terms of setting up relationships and getting the supply chain moved.”
Richard Roberts, import logistics manager at California-based PacSun, a lifestyle clothing company, echoed the sentiment that production must move out of China — even in the face of weaknesses in nations that offer a cheaper alternative.
“The latest round of tariffs is making it almost impossible to import from China,” said Roberts.
“This calendar year we are planning to move up to 30 percent of what we produce in China to Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and Pakistan.”
PacSun, which has 10,000 employees, imports about 900 20-foot containers a year, most of it from China.
– The cost of change –
“You’re going to have delays with factories not knowing how to make the correct timing. Roadways are not built, so containers are taking longer to get to the port,” Roberts said.
“You also have to take into consideration the longer transit time. You go from Shanghai, where it’s 10 or 12 days by vessel, to something coming out of India that’s 30 days, so that’s a disruption to your supply chain.
“We have Trump (as president) and it’s his agenda, so… what do you do? Your company has to do what it needs to do.”
For international law firm Harris Bricken, which helps companies navigate working abroad, partner Dan Harris said the US tariffs on China have caused his business to “go crazy” as companies seek help to avoid tariffs — often by moving their production from China.
US and Chinese talks are due to resume this month after a sharp deterioration in the trade war in August.
The chances of a breakthrough look slim after Trump tweeted that China was “hemorrhaging jobs and companies” and that Chinese negotiators may be holding out for a better deal in the hope he would lose next year’s elections.
Tom Case, a customs broker for 50 years and president of The Camelot Company, a customs brokerage company near Chicago’s O’Hare Airport, said that the costs would ultimately be passed onto the US consumer.
“The guy that’s losing is the guy that goes to the store to buy a new screwdriver,” he said.
“The screwdriver is going to cost him 25 percent more than it did before the Trump tariffs. The guy who’s buying the screwdriver is the one paying.”






US President Donald Trump held a previously unannounced bilateral meeting with Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the sidelines of the NATO summit on Wednesday.
Turkey has faced criticism among the allies at the London meeting and has threatened to impede a stronger defence policy for the Baltic states and the head-to-head was not on Trump’s published agenda.
“The presidents discussed the importance of Turkey fulfilling its alliance commitments, further strengthening commerce through boosting bilateral trade by $100 billion, regional security challenges, and energy security,” a White House official said.
Some of Turkey’s western allies, particularly France, have sharply criticised Ankara’s operation in northern Syria, which has targeted the Kurdish militia fighters who helped defeat the Islamic State group.
European capitals were as annoyed that Erdogan chose to buy and deploy Russia’s S-400 air defence system, in defiance of US sanctions threat and NATO defence procurement policy.
But Ankara, in turn, has demanded that NATO members recognise the Kurdish groups as “terrorists” and has threatened to oppose measures to shore up eastern European members against threats from Russia.
Chinese Vice Premier Liu He waved to the assembled news media on Friday morning as he climbed the steps at US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer’s office to return to the bargaining table.
But the sudden flare-up in hostilities has dimmed market hopes of a quick resolution. Under pressure all week, Wall Street continued to slide on Friday morning.
“Talks with China continue in a very congenial manner — there is absolutely no need to rush — as Tariffs are NOW being paid to the United States by China,” Trump tweeted.
Ramping up the pressure on China in a series of early morning tweets, the US leader argued that tariffs could in some ways be preferable to reaching a trade deal.
“Tariffs will bring in FAR MORE wealth to our country than even a phenomenal deal of the traditional kind,” Trump wrote.
Since last year, the United States and China have exchanged tariffs on more than $360 billion in two-way trade, gutting US agricultural exports to China and weighing on both countries’ manufacturing sectors.
Trump began the standoff because of complaints about unfair Chinese trade practices.
Lighthizer and Mnuchin met the Chinese delegation for about 90 minutes Thursday evening and they had a working dinner with Liu.
Weighing in ahead of the resumption of talks on Friday, Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said that “we will be happy if we could have an agreement with China,” but it “remains to be seen if that can be done.”
 ‘Can’t do that’ 
Despite optimism from officials in recent weeks that the talks were moving toward a deal, tensions reignited this week after Trump angrily accused China of trying to backpedal on its commitments.
“They took many, many parts of that deal and they renegotiated. You can’t do that,” Trump said Thursday.
Michael Taylor, a managing director for Moody’s Investors Service, said the tariff hike “further raises tensions” between the two countries.
“While we believe that a trade deal will eventually be reached between the US and China, the risk of a complete breakdown in trade talks has certainly increased,” Taylor said.
The renewed tensions roiled global stock markets this week and unnerved exporters, though Chinese shares led gains across most Asian and European markets on Friday.
Liu had said Thursday on his arrival in Washington that the prospects for the talks were “promising,” but warned raising tariffs would be “harmful to both sides.” 
“I hope to engage in rational and candid exchanges with the US side,” he told Chinese state media.
The higher duty rates imposed on Friday will hit a vast array of Chinese-made electrical equipment, machinery, auto parts and furniture.
But due to a quirk in their implementation, products already on ships headed for US ports before midnight will only pay the 10 percent rate.
That could effectively provide a grace period for the sides to avert an even more serious escalation.
“While we are disappointed that the stakes have been raised, we nevertheless support the ongoing effort by both sides to reach agreement on a strong, enforceable deal that resolves the fundamental, structural issues our members have long faced in China,” said business lobby the American Chamber of Commerce in China.
The US is pressing China to change its policies on protections for intellectual property, massive subsidies for state-owned firms, and to reduce the yawning trade deficit.
Derek Scissors, a China expert at the American Enterprise Institute, said the two sides had clashed over how much of the final trade agreement should be enshrined in a public document, something Beijing has long resisted.
“What the Chinese step-back primarily says is they don’t want to publicly acknowledge that their existing laws, especially on IP, are flawed,” he told AFP.
Washington is counting on the strong US economy to be able to withstand the impact of higher costs from the import duties and retaliation better than China, which has seen its growth slow.
A Chinese central bank advisor told state-run Financial News that Trump’s tariff hike and Chinese retaliation would lower economic growth by 0.3 percentage points.
It is “within a controllable range,” the advisor Ma Jun said.
The Islamic republic is prepared “to hold fruitful negotiations”, he told the Iranian cabinet, referring to two days of diplomatic efforts by French President Emmanuel Macron.
“From my point of view, the path (to dialogue) remains clear,”, he said in a speech carried on state television, thanking the French leader.
France’s efforts at the UN General Assembly in New York “could have been acceptable, in a certain way”, he said. “If anyone tried to prevent (contact taking place), it was the White House and nobody else”.
While diplomatic efforts were in full swing, “the American president on two occasions” in the space of 24 hours “clearly announced an intensification of sanctions against Iran”, said Rouhani.
“I said to our European friends: it’s good but who should we believe? Should we believe what you are saying, that America is ready (to lift sanctions), or what the US president is saying?”
Trump phoned Rouhani on the sidelines of the UN summit but he refused to take the call, a French diplomatic source said Tuesday.
The call on September 24, the source said, came after Macron had shuttled between the US and Iranian leaders in a bid to arrange a historic encounter that he hoped would reduce the risk of all-out war in the Middle East.
“In New York, up to the last moment, Emmanuel Macron tried to broker contact, as his talks with presidents Trump and Rouhani led him to think contact was possible,” the diplomatic source said.
The source said Macron made a last-ditch attempt before flying back to Paris, with French technicians installing a secure phone line linking Trump’s Lotte hotel and the Millennium, hosting the Iranian delegation.
Macron went to the Millennium to ensure the phone call took place. Trump made the call, but Rouhani informed the French president he would not take it, the source said.
Speculation was abuzz last month that the leaders could meet on the sidelines of the General Assembly. But Rouhani stressed he would only hold talks with the US if Trump lifted economic sanctions on Iran.
Tensions between Tehran and Washington, which severed diplomatic ties in the aftermath of the 1979 revolution, have been escalating since May 2018 when Trump pulled out of a landmark nuclear accord and began reimposing sanctions that have crippled the Iranian economy.
The request came from an official who said he had been briefed on requirements for the visit by the White House Military Office and the Seventh Fleet, which is stationed in Japan.
“USS John McCain needs to be out of sight,” the email seen by the Wall Street Journal said. “Please confirm #3 will be satisfied,” it added, referring to the request.
The order apparently posed a conundrum because the ship was undergoing repairs and would have been difficult to move before Trump arrived on Tuesday to deliver a speech on a neighbouring ship.
In response, a tarpaulin was hung over the ship’s name, which also refers to McCain’s father and grandfather, the Journal said. The tarpaulin was removed before Trump arrived, but a barge was moved closer to the ship, blocking the view of its name.
Contacted by AFP, a spokesman for the Seventh Fleet said that photos showing a tarp over the name of the ship were from Friday and that the barge was moved out of the way on Saturday, days before Trump’s visit.
“All ships remained in normal configuration during the President’s visit,” Commander Clay Doss said.
The New York Times, however, cited two Navy sailors as saying sailors from the McCain were not invited to hear Trump speak, unlike those serving on other US warships at the base.
And when several showed up anyway, wearing uniforms bearing the name of the ship, they were turned away, the newspaper reported.
The Journal said acting Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan was aware of the concern about the ship’s name and “approved measures to ensure it didn’t interfere with the president’s visit.”
 Trump denies involvement 
But Shanahan, speaking during a visit to Jakarta as part of a regional tour, denied any prior knowledge.
“When I read about it this morning, it was the first I heard about it,” he told reporters.
“I need to find out a little bit more,” he added when asked if he planned an investigation.
Trump too denied any knowledge of a directive to cover up the name.
“I was not informed about anything having to do with the Navy Ship USS John S. McCain during my recent visit to Japan,” the president tweeted.
“Nevertheless, @FLOTUS and I loved being with our great Military Men and Women – what a spectacular job they do!”
Trump had a combative political relationship with McCain, who died in August and was taken prisoner and tortured during the Vietnam war.
Despite never serving in the military himself, Trump mocked the moderate Republican’s war hero status in 2015.
McCain, a respected figure in US politics for decades who himself ran for president twice, withdrew his support for Trump in the 2016 presidential election and blocked Trump’s healthcare efforts in Congress in 2017.
And before the senator died of brain cancer at the age of 81, he said he didn’t want Trump attending his funeral.
Even after McCain’s death, the president has continued to make his dislike clear: “I was never a fan of John McCain and I never will be,” Trump said in March.
“Trump is a child who will always be deeply threatened by the greatness of my dad’s incredible life,” McCain’s daughter Meghan tweeted Wednesday evening after the reports emerged.
The two septuagenarians are at the center of a Washington maelstrom featuring an impeachment inquiry, intense partisan feuding and repeated attacks on Biden by a president apparently eager to create a fog of confusion over his potential 2020 election rival.
Trump has admitted seeking help from Ukraine’s president to investigate Biden on a phone call at the heart of a whistleblower complaint which has prompted House Democratic leadership to launch a formal impeachment probe against Trump.
He has also darkly insinuated that the former vice-president used his influence to help son Hunter Biden in his private-sector dealings in Ukraine, where he served on the board of an energy company.
Claims of Biden corruption have been fact-checked and largely debunked, but Trump has hammered away with his accusations in a thinly-veiled effort to cripple the Democratic frontrunner.
“Joe Biden and his son are corrupt,” Trump bellowed Tuesday.
If the accusations sounded worrying for Biden, his team suggested Democratic voters see it differently.
“It’s been our best week of fund-raising since the second week of the campaign,” a campaign official told AFP Friday.
Biden himself has punched back against Trump. But in a Wednesday statement he said he “will continue to focus my campaign not on how Donald Trump abused his power to come after my family, but on how he has turned his back on America’s families.”
Attacks on relatives of politicians is tricky business, and there is always the threat of a backfire. Voters may sympathize with Biden, who lost son Beau to cancer, and with Hunter, who has struggled with drug abuse.
Democrats have repeatedly savaged Trump’s adult children, particularly sons Donald Jr and Eric, for their business dealings and campaign efforts.
Experts are split on how the Ukraine imbroglio will impact Biden, with American University professor of government David Lublin arguing it could serve Trump’s rival well in the long run.
“I can’t imagine a better way to increase your support among Democrats than to be attacked repeatedly by Donald Trump,” Lublin told AFP.
With Biden’s campaign flagging — rival Elizabeth Warren leapfrogged him to take top spot in recent polls in early voting Iowa and New Hampshire, as well as California — a war of words with Trump could boost Biden’s profile as a fighter and seasoned statesman.
‘Guilt by association?’ 
It could also bolster his campaign by siphoning attention away from Democratic hopefuls struggling to make their voices heard.
“If you’re not being talked about by the national news media, you don’t exist,” Lublin said.
Exhibit A: the president himself. Exhaustive news coverage of Trump in 2015 was largely negative, but it served to “crowd out coverage of his primary opponents,” Lublin said.
There has been no proof of Biden wrongdoing, but the Trump narrative “is already taking hold,” observed Seth McKee, associate professor of political science at Texas Tech University.
Trump has said Biden pressed for the removal of a Ukrainian prosecutor in order to protect his son, accusations dismissed by Democrats.
While Hunter’s activities may not have been illegal, any appearance of a conflict of interest between his business dealings and his well-placed father could rub off on the candidate.
“It’s guilt by association,” according to McKee.
By launching impeachment proceedings, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has assured a steady focus on the Ukraine scandal, and by extension the conduct of the Bidens.
“I don’t see how that’s a winner” for Biden, McKee added.
“You can circle the wagons and defend your son, but when you’re on defense in politics it’s never a good thing.”
Biden could benefit by appearing as the presumed nominee under attack by the president, said Tim Hagle, a University of Iowa professor who has long studied US politics.
But if Warren continues to surge, and voters question Biden’s electability, problems could mount for him.
“The bottom line here is… it’s still a little bit early to tell whether this is going to be a help or a hindrance to Biden,” Hagle said. “The fact that people are asking these questions (about Biden conduct in Ukraine) certainly can’t help.”






The leaders will not hold a full-scale meeting at the Group of 20 summits in Osaka starting June 28, however, Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists, saying Washington has not reached out to organise one.
“There’s no news on a possible full-scale meeting between Putin and Trump in Osaka,” Peskov said. “That means the American side has still not formulated any initiatives or proposals on this.”
Peskov added that “one can’t rule out a brief meeting between them while they are standing up, but this won’t be a full-scale meeting.”
Trump said last week that he would meet Putin on the sidelines of the summit but told a reporter he wanted other people to be present at their meeting because “you people (journalists) don’t trust anything.”
The US leader said last month he would meet with Putin at the G20, but the Kremlin indicated at the time there was no agreement on a bilateral meeting.
On Tuesday, Trump is set to formally announce his bid for re-election in 2020.
Donald Trump’s lawyers have claimed the president could shoot somebody on New York’s Fifth Avenue and get away with it. The city’s mayor disagrees.
“If anybody shoots someone they get arrested. I don’t care if it’s the President of the United States or anybody else,” Bill de Blasio told a press conference Thursday.
“If you shoot someone, you should get arrested and we would arrest him,” added the anti-Trump mayor, until recently a candidate to be the 2020 Democratic presidential nominee.
De Blasio was responding to a question about a comment that one of Trump’s attorneys made before a Manhattan appeals court hearing on Wednesday.
The three judges are to rule on whether Trump is obliged to obey a prosecutor’s injunction demanding that he disclose his tax returns.
Trump’s lawyers have claimed he doesn’t need to abide by the ruling because as president of the United States he cannot be prosecuted for an offense.
The judges referenced Trump’s infamous boast of 2016 that he could shoot somebody in the middle of Fifth Avenue and not lose any voters.
One of them asked Trump’s team whether their argument that the president is above the law meant he could not be investigated by the authorities in that hypothetical scenario.
“That is correct,” responded attorney William Consovoy, adding, however, that immunity ends when the president leaves office.
Legal experts argue that any immunity granted to presidents, according to case law, applies only to actions carried as part of his official duties as leader of the US.
Despite being a New Yorker, Trump is hugely unpopular in his home city. Protests outside his former home in Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue are common.
An online petition to rename the stretch of Fifth Avenue opposite Trump Tower “President Barack H. Obama Avenue” has received almost 450,000 signatures.
At Thursday’s joint press conference, which was about police suicides, NYPD deputy commissioner Benjamin Tucker backed up mayor de Blasio.
“We would (apprehend Trump). I mean it’s as simple as that,” he said amid laughter.
Major international media, including AFP, have said the name was given by the president, but in fact it appears there is no record of him using it in public.
It seems the first major usage of the phrase originates from a 2017 meeting between Trump and Egyptian president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi.
Since then it has been used widely in the Arab world and by Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas, particularly by those opposed to the deal.
The origins
Shortly after his surprise election victory in November 2016, president-elect Trump gave an interview to The Wall Street Journal. 
Labelling it the “war that never ends,” he called achieving Israel-Palestinian peace “the ultimate deal.”
“As a deal maker, I’d like to do… the deal that can’t be made. And do it for humanity’s sake,” he said.
Trump had declared his desire to lead the most pro-Israel US government in history, but the Palestinians, Egyptians and other Arab states engaged with his administration on a potential peace proposal.
On April 3, 2017, Trump met President Sisi. 
In Arabic-language remarks, the Egyptian leader told Trump he was fully supportive of Trump’s attempts to find a “solution to the issue of the century with the deal of the century.”
The simultaneous translation of his speech into English, however, translated Sisi’s statement as finding a solution to the “problem of the century,” with no reference to the word deal.
After the meeting the term deal of the century began to be discussed in Arabic media and online.
In May 2017, Palestinian leader Abbas met Trump at the White House but refers only to a “historic peace deal” without using the phrase deal of the century.
In September the two men met again and Abbas referred to it in Arabic as the “deal of the era.”
The simultaneous translation into English and White House transcript, however, referred to it as the “deal of the century.”
This is possibly the first time Trump heard the phrase in public.
In November 2017, the official Palestinian news agency labels it the ‘Deal of the century.’
In December, Abbas cut ties with the Trump administration after the US officially recognised the disputed city of Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.
The phrase “Deal of the century” became commonly used by Palestinian officials attacking Trump’s proposals, shorthand criticism for the way Trump  a real estate mogul — thinks about foreign policy.
Over time it became the default Arabic phrase for the peace proposals.
It also starts to seep into English-language reporting on the issue.
In January 2019 The Wall Street Journal said Trump had “spoken repeatedly about his desire to find the ‘deal of the century’ to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,” while the Reuters news wire referred to a “diplomatic effort that Trump has touted as the ‘deal of the century.'”
In May, The New York Times said Trump and his son-in-law Jared Kushner were finally ready to unveil the first part of “what the president has called ‘the deal of the century.'”
On June 1, an AFP story said the plan had been “dubbed by Trump as the ‘deal of the century.'” 
Yet there is no record of the president or any of his senior officials working on the issue publicly using the phrase.
US officials have expressed surprise and confusion about how the formula became so commonplace.
In a statement to AFP, Trump’s Middle East envoy Jason Greenblatt distanced the administration from it.
“It’s not a label we prefer to use. It has been used in a derogatory way by some media outlets and others (outside the media),” he said. “We will present a realistic and implementable vision for peace.”
Trump revealed that the military dog, a Belgian Malinois, is named “Conan” — heretofore a closely guarded secret because the information could be used to identify the special forces unit that carried out the raid in Syria over the weekend.
Trump posted a photomontage on Twitter showing him bestowing a medal of honor on the dog with the legend: “AMERICAN HERO.”
“Very cute recreation, but the ‘live’ version of Conan will be leaving the Middle East for the White House sometime next week!” he tweeted.
It was unclear what else lies in store for Conan, but it has been noted that Trump is the first US president in more than a hundred years who doesn’t own a dog.
Conan was injured chasing Baghdadi into a dead end tunnel in his Syrian hideout, where the cornered IS leader detonated a suicide vest, killing himself and two children, according to the US account.
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley, said earlier this week that the hero dog was expected to make a full recovery and was already back with his handlers.
The photomontage that Trump retweeted was produced by the conservative publication Daily Wire.
It used a White House picture of the president draping the Medal of Honor, the nation’s highest military medal, around the neck of James McCloughan, a former army medic distinguished for saving lives under fire during the Vietnam War.
On Tuesday, Netflix unveiled the initial projects for Higher Ground Productions, Obama’s production company in partnership with the streaming service. 
Among them is the adaptation of Lewis’s book in “non-fiction” form, Netflix said in a statement. 
The series “will aim to portray the importance of unheralded work done by everyday heroes guiding our government and safeguarding our nation,” it said.
Several of Lewis’s books have already been adapted for cinema, including “The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday Machine.”
His latest work, published last year, describes the inner workings of the US government while offering a very critical picture of President Trump and his team.
It portrays an elected president who has not prepared anything for his arrival in office and is only moderately interested in the notes, briefings and communications of government officials trying to help. 
The book also highlights the many presidential decisions seen as questionable in putting together the administration, with the one-time real estate magnate quick to install people with no prior relevant position in key positions.
Higher Ground is producing an adaptation of The New York Times feature “Overlooked,” which publishes obituaries on historical figures whose death was not reported at the time, mainly because they were women or minorities.
The production company — led by two women, Priya Swaminathan and Tonia Davis — is also tackling a feature film on Frederick Douglass, a African-American slave who went on to play a leading role in abolitionism.
The missives threaten to plunge Washington and London into an unprecedented diplomatic crisis with an uncertain outcome and have landed their author, British Ambassador Kim Darroch — and by default his prime minister — in Trump’s crosshairs.
If the US president initially reacted with restraint over the cables’ weekend publication, the tone has changed and heated passions do not seem about to subside.
“The wacky Ambassador that the U.K. foisted upon the United States is not someone we are thrilled with, a very stupid guy,” Trump tweeted Tuesday, mirroring a furious barrage of insults the day before.
The US president’s early morning wrath was not solely reserved for Darroch, however. Trump doubled down in attacking May and her fraught Brexit negotiations, saying he told her “how to do that deal, but she went her own foolish way-was unable to get it done. A disaster!”
London has been scrambling to stem the damage caused by the leaked documents, in which Darroch described the US leader as “inept” and his White House as “uniquely dysfunctional.”
Visibly angered by May’s continuing support for her ambassador — which Downing Street reiterated on Monday — Trump welcomed the prime minister’s impending departure from office.
“The good news for the wonderful United Kingdom is that they will soon have a new Prime Minister,” he wrote Monday, declaring that he would have no further contact with Darroch.

By Tuesday, Trump was demanding that Darroch “speak to his country, and Prime Minister May, about their failed Brexit negotiation, and not be upset with my criticism of how badly it was handled.” 
The cables’ publication in the Mail on Sunday newspaper came just a month after Trump enjoyed a state visit to Britain punctuated by a 41-gun salute at Buckingham Palace and a banquet dinner with the queen.
The incident threatens to complicate London’s efforts to strike a new trade agreement with the United States, seen as key to mitigating potential damage from Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union.
It also comes as British politics are in for a major revamp once May ends her three-year spell in power later this month.
 ‘Frank’ accounts 
British officials defended Darroch as carrying out his duties by providing “frank” accounts of developments in Washington.
“We have made clear to the US how unfortunate this leak is. The selective extracts leaked do not reflect the closeness of, and the esteem in which we hold, the relationship,” the government spokesperson said.
Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt said the culprit if identified, would face “very serious consequences.”
The immediate suspicion of the London papers fell on Brexit-backing players in a power struggle within the governing Conservative Party.
Former foreign minister Boris Johnson, a hardliner on Brexit, is the favourite to replace May in a leadership contest against Hunt.
During a stop at the Manchester airport, Johnson told reporters he had “no embarrassment” in saying he had a good relationship with the White House.
“I think it’s very important that we have a strong relationship with our most important ally,” he said, adding that he himself had been critical of the Brexit negotiations.
“That’s one of the reasons I am standing tonight and one of the reasons I am putting myself forward,” he said. “I think there is a chance to do things differently, a chance to break away from the failed old can-kicking approaching.”
The winner of the leadership contest will get to appoint his own US envoy by the time Darroch’s term expires in January.
After years of often fawning coverage by Fox, particularly from its pro-Trump anchors like Sean Hannity, the commander in chief appears to be tilting his media gaze toward a younger, more right-wing rival, cable outfit One America News Network (OANN).
The small upstart broadcaster was launched only recently, in 2013, by technology millionaire Robert Herring, who sought a more conservative alternative to mainstream media behemoths like CNN.
Today it seeks to outfox Fox by drawing extra attention from Trump, who has been voicing his displeasure with the ratings leader over everything from presidential polling to its hosting of Democratic candidate town halls.
Last week in a tweet to his 63 million followers, the president managed to disparage Fox and his mainstream news foil CNN, while heaping praise on the new object of his media affection.
Embracing a newcomer 
“Watching Fake News CNN is better than watching Shepard Smith, the lowest rated show on @FoxNews. Actually, whenever possible, I turn to @OANN!” Trump posted.
Since March he has tweeted links to OANN stories or shared his appreciation of the network 13 times.
The relationship has been years in the making. In 2015 Trump was interviewed by Sarah Palin, the Republican vice presidential nominee in 2008, when she guest-hosted OANN’s show “On Point.”
At his first press conference as president-elect, in January 2017, Trump took a question from an OANN reporter. OANN was then called on dozens of times at the daily briefings in Trump’s first 100 days in office.
During his June 2018 press conference in Singapore, following the summit with North Korea’s Kim Jong Un, Trump took a question from OANN White House correspondent Emerald Robinson, but not before gushing about her network.
‘It’s really beautiful’
“Thank you for the nice way you treat us. We appreciate it,” he said. “Really, it’s very good. It’s really beautiful what you do.”
The San Diego-based operation describes itself as “straight news, no opinion.” But the pro-Trump agenda is crystal clear, more than a dozen current and former employees told The Washington Post in 2017.
Herring himself, in his pinned tweet, describes OANN as “the president’s favorite new outlet.”
When Fox cut away from broadcasting a Trump rally in New Hampshire on Thursday, Herring tweeted, “We will never cut away!”
‘Wasting airtime’ 
OANN has faced accusations of promoting conspiracy theories and peddling Kremlin propaganda.
“Yeah, we like Russia here,” a staffer assigned to brief new OANN producer Ernest Champell told him, according to The Daily Beast. Champell left, disillusioned, four months later.
“The network has a history of race-baiting and presenting anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant and anti-abortion reporting,” according to Media Matters, a progressive nonprofit group that says its mission is “analyzing and correcting conservative misinformation.”
While OANN’s influence in the White House may far outweigh its position in the news media landscape, Trump clearly retains an affinity for several people in the Fox organization.
The show “Fox & Friends” remains his go-to morning program; Trump has phoned in on numerous occasions as president.
Perhaps that is why Democratic longshot contender Julian Castro purchased ad time during “Fox & Friends” this week, airing a spot in which he directly addresses Trump and blames him for inspiring the El Paso shooter who massacred 22 people early this month.
Polls ‘have been terrible’
Sean Hannity, the network’s popular anchor, appeared alongside Trump at a campaign rally ahead of the 2018 mid-terms.
But friction emerged this week when Hannity expressed support for CNN anchor Chris Cuomo after a video of Cuomo in a heated argument at a New York bar went viral.
It was a sharp contrast to Trump, who tweeted that Cuomo — the brother of New York’s Democratic governor Andrew Cuomo — was “nuts” and showed a “total loss of control” in the incident.
The president expressed frustration when Fox aired multiple town halls in recent months featuring Democrats who are trying to unseat him in 2020, including South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg, currently fifth in major polling.
“Hard to believe that @FoxNews is wasting airtime on Mayor Pete,” Trump tweeted in May. “Fox is moving more and more to the losing (wrong) side in covering the Dems.”
Fox News presidential polling is also a concern for Trump, whose job approval rating in the network’s mid-August poll dipped substantially, to 43 percent, while his disapproval rating spiked to 56 percent, its highest since October 2017.
In head-to-head matchups, the poll shows Trump losing to major Democratic candidates, including to frontrunner Joe Biden by 12 percentage points and to liberal Bernie Sanders by nine.
“There’s something going on at Fox, I’ll tell you right now. And I’m not happy with it,” Trump told reporters on Sunday as he headed back to Washington from vacation.






(FILES): US President Donald Trump.  Zach Gibson/Getty Images/AFP
They will no doubt insist that the Christmas season, which we as Christians celebrate worldwide, to commemorate the birth of Christ, should nullify, outweigh or supercede Trump’s criminality. They may even point to the thief on the cross, who was crucified next to Jesus Christ, but whom Christ forgave in his final moments on earth. His supporters will conveniently forget that the miscreant, repented before he received forgiveness and restoration. This connotes a desire and willingness to make right any wrongs, and to refrain from future misdeeds. 
This bible account is commonly called; ‘The penitent thief’. It amply demonstrates that grace is not cheap, and that to receive grace there must be a quid pro quo – an exchange as it were. When Trump is not in direct contravention of fundamental Christian tenets, he stands at the ready to exploit Christianity as a ploy, crutch, prop or smoke screen. He does so, much in the same manner as he physically embraced the American flag, supposedly in an act of uber-patriotism, whilst contemporaneously committing acts, to spite the constitution and demean the rule of law.
Should the Democrats send Articles of Impeachment to the Senate, by or before Christmas, their action would be a tinsel wrapped gift that keeps on giving. Presented with the opportunity to simultaneously play the ‘Christmas card’ on top of the ‘victim card’, it would not be inconceivable for a totally histrionic Trump, to employ his honed craft of spewing lies and fomenting division. 
This time it would be on a presidential dais, next to a picture-perfect nativity scene complete with farm animals, the three kings from the east, and a totally helpless and harmless depiction of Christ as an infant. It is against this backdrop that Trump would launch a blistering attack on the Democrats, accusing them of being vindictive, divisive and bent on executing a vendetta against him and his followers. It is more than likely that in this scenario, public opinion for his impeachment would tick down appreciably. Let us bear in mind that Trump and his ilk, may also find it useful to brandish the ‘God card’, as a means to advance a ‘pardons’ argument on behalf of himself and his co-conspirators, ‘in the spirit of Christmas’.  
Unquestionable bible doctrine stipulates that Christ is part of the triune Godhead, and is one with God.  It therefore behooves us to reflect on the case of King Uzziah (783 – 742 BC), for an inkling into how God might view these momentous events. King Uzziah reigned in the ancient kingdom of Judah, which had splintered from the kingdom of Israel.  His contempt for the settled norms and traditions of governance, got the better of him and led him to usurp the established authority of the priesthood, whose sole prerogative it was to burn incense to God in the temple. King Uzziah took it upon himself to sabotage this sacred duty by entering into the temple and burning incense to God himself. His brazen, unorthodox actions were egregious, as he upended official structures and institutions, thereby, threatening the balance of power within the Kingdom. God was not willing to give him a pass and He struck King Uzziah with leprosy. In effect, the popular king was relegated to the status of permanent outcast, becoming at once a pariah and a by-word. 
The questions could be asked why a benevolent God would visit such a fate on a king, who by all reckoning was a successful ruler and why wouldn’t a forgiving God overlook his aberrant conduct?  King Uzziah’s rogue, unprecedented actions, not only corrupted and challenged the legitimate role of the priesthood, whose pivotal functions impacted existential issues of personal and national life; in misbehaving he made public mockery of and denigrated both priestly and kingly institutions. Furthermore, he lay down a very dangerous precedent. 
His ill-considered conduct could have precipitated a descent into widespread societal chaos and mayhem, propelled by the scourge of lawlessness. In essence, anarchy was being promoted by the highest office in the land. In addition, King Uzziah could have provoked a general revolt of the populace, who were fully cognizant of his villainy. Indeed, the people would have felt disrespected and hard done by, as he was not authorized or qualified to serve as a mediator on their behalf in matters pertaining to the Divine. Left unchecked the nation could have plunged into a burning conflagration, which might have resulted in self-annihilation.
Trumps dug-in trajectory of stonewalling Congress and his corrupt sway over the head of the U.S. judiciary, the country’s chief law enforcer, are on par with King Uzziah’s malfeasance. He is self-coronating and declaring himself to be above the law, in his quest to satisfy his feral appetites. The Democratic Party ought not to anoint him, which would be the end result, if they were to announce their findings prematurely. 
They ought to hold their cards close to their chests, and not volunteer any information relating to the Impeachment inquiry conclusions, until after the New Year. Timing is of the utmost importance, in their valiant efforts to stave off further damage to a functioning, exemplary democracy. Failing which, authoritarianism, oligarchic tyranny and mass unrest will be the order of the day. In light of the high-stakes, it may augur well to contemplate the Christmas season mindful of harsh realities and cold, alarming truths, endeavouring not to be blinded by the unending displays of dazzling Christmas lights.






The intervention costs the U.S. Departments of State and Transportation about $1.2 million yearly for the National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) experts to hold safety symposia and programmes in African countries. 
    
Managing Director of NTSB, Dennis Jones, at the two-day safety symposium, concluded in Lagos at the weekend, described the programme as a success-factor in air travel safety and security in Nigeria, among others. Jones said after spending 20 years in Africa participating in accident investigations, conducting workshops, helping improve accident investigation programmes, and training investigators, he had seen an increase in commercial air service between the United States and Africa, especially where none existed before, improved investigation quality, and a reduced rate of accidents involving commercial aircraft. 
 
Chief Executive Officer of the AIB, the local host of the programme, Akin Olateru, said he had been informed that the U.S. government henceforth ceases to sponsor the programme, though he would not comment on the rationale for the decision.Olateru, who expressed grief on the development, said African countries also need to look inwards to independently strengthen their aviation safety programmes.
 
 “It is unfortunate that the U.S. will no longer sponsor this programme that has benefit Africa greatly. I think we Africans can put our heads together to help ourselves. The reason is when an aircraft goes down, it does not distinguish nationality.“It is my initiative to get the AfDB to sponsor this project for safer skies for Africa. I had a meeting with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) President speaking on how the AfDB can sponsor the Safer Skies for Africa through ICAO. It is so because AfDB can sponsor only through an unattached independent agency like ICAO. And for the next meeting clear-cut modalities can be put in place to get this sponsorship running,” Olateru said.
   
Aviation Security consultant, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd), congratulated the AIB for organising the programme for the industry, saying that it was the remit of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to have organised such. Ojikutu said Nigeria didn’t need the U.S. fund to organise safety and security programme because NCAA should ordinarily hold such at least once in two years. 
 
Unfortunately, “NCAA has not fully enforced compliance to safety recommendations from AIB’s accidents investigations and that should be worrisome to the industry stakeholders. So, if NCAA would not, with 58 per cent share from total charges in the sector, and AIB with only three per cent share of the generated fund has to do NCAA’s duty, then let us appreciate the AIB.
 
“For me, we don’t need the AfDB sponsorship for such programmes. We should stop giving the aviation global community the impression that we are prodigal with our earnings. NCAA has sufficient money from all its earnings to sustain yearly safety symposium for the operators in the sector,” Ojikutu said.






The allies cancelled the combined air exercise known as Vigilant Ace along with several other joint drills last year amid a rapid diplomatic thaw with the North, which considers them a rehearsal for invasion.
But Pentagon spokesman David Eastburn said this week that the US had “no plans to skip upcoming combined exercises” this year.
A senior North Korean official said Wednesday that the announcement was equivalent to a “declaration for confrontation” that could jeopardise the diplomatic process.
“We have stressed on several occasions that the joint military drills will force us to reconsider the important steps that we have already taken,” said Kwon Jong Gun at the North’s foreign ministry.
“Our patience is reaching an uppermost limit,” Kwon said in a statement carried by the official KCNA news agency.
Kwon was part of the North Korean delegation at the working-level nuclear talks with the US in Sweden last month when Pyongyang walked away blaming Washington’s lack of “new and creative” solutions.
Negotiations have been gridlocked since the Hanoi summit between leader Kim Jong Un and US President Donald Trump broke up in February amid disagreement over sanctions relief and what the North would be willing to give up in return.
Pyongyang has since carried out a series of missile tests, the latest of them last week when it said it fired a “super-large multiple rocket launcher”.
Mulvaney is the latest administration official to be ordered to testify with the impeachment probe closing in around those nearest the president as it proceeds into a new public phase, in which transcripts of closed-door testimony are being released.
Mulvaney is the highest-ranking White House official to be summoned in the probe, although he is unlikely to comply given the White House's opposition to administration officials cooperating with investigators.
The chairs of the three House committees leading the investigation wrote Mulvaney requesting he appear before the panels on Friday at 9:00 am.
"The investigation has revealed that you may have been directly involved in an effort orchestrated by President Trump, his personal agent, Rudolph Giuliani, and others to withhold a coveted White House meeting and nearly $400 million in security assistance in order to pressure (Ukraine) to pursue investigations that would benefit President Trump's personal political interests," they wrote.
"Your failure or refusal to appear at the deposition, including at the direction or behest of the president, shall constitute further evidence of obstruction of the House's impeachment inquiry and may be used as an adverse inference against you and the President."
Last month, Mulvaney publicly stated that the decision to freeze aid was tied to the demand for investigations. He later walked back those comments.
Several current and former officials have defied House subpoenas or voluntary requests to testify.
John Eisenberg, a White House lawyer suspected of involvement in the Ukraine scandal, and Robert Blair, assistant to the president and senior advisor to Mulvaney, were among four officials who ignored calls to testify Monday.
The no-shows continued Tuesday when Wells Griffith, a White House adviser on energy, failed to appear.






Israel urged European states to sanction Iran, while Russia voiced regret but said the move was a consequence of US pressure, which has pushed the deal towards collapse.
Britain called on Tehran “to avoid any further steps away” from the landmark deal, and the UN said Iran must stick to its commitments under the accord.
“Iran has crossed the 300-kilogram limit based on its plan” announced in May, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif told semi-official news agency ISNA.
But he also said the move could be reversed.
“They know what they’re doing. They know what they’re playing with and I think they’re playing with fire,” Trump told reporters at the White House when asked about Iran.
The United States withdrew from the nuclear deal last year and hit Iran’s crucial oil exports and financial transactions as well as other sectors with biting sanctions.
Tehran, which has sought to pressure the remaining parties to save the deal, announced on May 8 it would no longer respect the limit set on its enriched uranium and heavy water stockpiles.
It threatened to abandon further nuclear commitments unless the remaining partners — Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia — helped it circumvent sanctions, especially to sell its oil.
The White House had earlier said that “the United States and its allies will never allow Iran to develop nuclear weapons,” vowing to continue exerting “maximum pressure” on the regime.
“It was a mistake under the Iran nuclear deal to allow Iran to enrich uranium at any level,” spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham said in a statement.
‘One mustn’t dramatize’ 
Zarif insisted Iran had done nothing wrong. “We have NOT violated the #JCPOA,” he tweeted, referring to the deal.
He said Iran would “reverse” its decision “as soon as E3 abide by their obligations” — referring to the European parties to the deal: Britain, France and Germany.
Zarif’s American counterpart Mike Pompeo accused Iran of using its nuclear program “to extort the international community and threaten regional security.”
The International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed Iran had exceeded the limit that the deal imposed on its stockpile of low-enriched uranium (LEU).
A diplomat in Vienna, where the UN’s nuclear watchdog is based, told AFP that Iran had exceeded the 300 kilogram (661 pound) limit by two kilograms.
Russia’s deputy foreign minister, Sergei Ryabkov, said Iran’s move was a cause for “regret” but also “a natural consequence of recent events” and a result of the “unprecedented pressure” from the US.
“One mustn’t dramatize the situation,” Ryabkov, whose country is a close ally of Tehran, said in comments reported by Russian news agencies.
Britain’s Foreign Minister Jeremy Hunt said on Twitter that London was “deeply worried” and urged Iran to “come back to compliance” with the nuclear deal.
UN chief Antonio Guterres said it was “essential” that Iran stick to the deal.
‘Europe’s efforts not enough’ 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu urged European countries to impose sanctions on his country’s arch-foe Iran.
Trump spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron on Monday about Iran’s breach of the nuclear deal limit, the White House said.
The US president expressed hope in an interview broadcast Monday — which was taped prior to Iran’s announcement on the uranium limit — that Tehran will come to the negotiating table.
“Hopefully, at some point, they’ll come back and they’ll say, ‘We’re going to make a deal.’ Let’s see what happens,” Trump told Fox News Channel’s “Tucker Carlson Tonight.”
The European Union said Friday after a crisis meeting aimed at salvaging the deal that a special payment mechanism set up to help Iran skirt the sanctions, known as INSTEX, was finally “operational” and that the first transactions were being processed.
But “the Europeans’ efforts were not enough, therefore Iran will go ahead with its announced measures,” Zarif said.
INSTEX, which “is just the beginning” of their commitments, has not yet been fully implemented, he added.
The 2015 deal saw Iran commit to never acquiring an atomic bomb, accept drastic limits on its nuclear program and submit to IAEA inspections in exchange for a partial lifting of crippling international sanctions.
Iran has also threatened to start enriching uranium above the agreed maximum purification level of 3.67 percent from July 7. That remains far short of the 90 percent purity required to build a weapon.
The latest tensions coincide with a buildup of US forces in the Gulf and a series of incidents including Iran’s shooting down of a US drone it claimed had entered its airspace.






Members of the White House Correspondents’ Association, or WHCA, will be decked out in bow ties and gowns at the downtown Washington Hilton.
Trump, however, will be 685 miles (1100 kilometers) away in Green Bay, Wisconsin, for a rally with his baseball cap-wearing supporters.
And he’s almost guaranteed to devote a portion of his speech — like most of his speeches — to haranguing the “fake news media” or “enemy of the people.”
Although there’s nothing obligatory about attending WHCA dinners, presidents have usually done so at some point during their time in office every year since the inaugural version in 1921.
Ronald Reagan was the last absentee in 1981 and he had a decent excuse: being recently shot in an assassination attempt.
Trump, however, has boycotted what he calls the “boring” and “negative” party for three years in a row — his entire presidency so far.
The gala used to be a glamorous affair where hundreds of journalists, Hollywood celebrities and the president were entertained by a top-drawer comedian or other talent.
Now the celebs have drained away and this year even the comedian is missing. A presidential historian, Ron Chernow, will deliver the main speech instead.
“Killing the White House Correspondents’ Dinner,” runs the headline of a Columbia Journalism Review article amounting to an obituary for the formerly revered fixture.
‘Insulting, confrontational’
Underlining the snub, Trump has ordered staff, including chief press secretary Sarah Sanders, to also refuse invitations.
It’s the latest shot in what the president sees as his war against a media machine refusing to give him fair coverage.
Trump’s main weapon is Twitter, which he uses daily to reach some 60 million followers. Millions more follow him on other platforms.
As Sanders said in 2017, Twitter “gives him a communications tool… that isn’t filtered through media bias.”
The other main way of bypassing potentially critical outlets is his extraordinary relationship with Fox News, the Rupert Murdoch owned network which has been criticized for coming to resemble state television.
Even if many of the news journalists maintain their independence, some of the most prominent anchors and hosts show nothing but loyalty to Trump. They’re rewarded with exclusive access to administration officials and to the president himself.
Meanwhile, other outlets are mostly kept at arm’s length.
The press briefing room in the White House, which used to see nearly daily Q&A sessions under previous presidents, has been all but abandoned.
Trump is unusually accessible, but mostly through often chaotic, informal gatherings, while Saturday marks the 48th day since Sanders held a full briefing.
When they’re not being ignored, White House journalists can expect to hear abuse. Trump’s rallies invariably include segments where he encourages the crowd to boo the reporters covering the event.
“This is new,” says Jeff Morosoff, a journalism and media professor at Hofstra University’s Lawrence Herbert School of Communication. “No president has ever been so contentious, insulting and confrontational.”
“I think the day is going to come when one of his followers is going to hurt somebody,” Morosoff warned.
Sense of humor failure
For years, WHCA dinners were a chance to let the hair down in a notoriously serious town. Past performers include Bob Hope, Frank Sinatra and Barbra Streisand.
Since the 1980s, comedians have provided entertainment, making gentle and not-so-gentle fun, or “roasting,” the centerpiece of the dinner.
Presidents were expected to give back as good as they got. A standout moment was Obama’s riff in 2011, when one of his comic targets in the VIP-packed audience was none other than Donald Trump.
Last year, though, the jokes fell flat.
Featured comedian Michelle Wolf tore into Sanders and caused as much offense as laughter. Even the WHCA thought it had gone too far, calling her routine “not in the spirit” of the occasion.
Wolf called the WHCA “cowards.”
The association’s president, Olivier Knox, says this year is an opportunity to return to the event’s roots: a gathering to reinforce support for the constitutional right to free speech.
“We’re looking forward to an enjoyable evening of celebrating the First Amendment and great journalists past, present, and future,” he said.






“China is eating the tariffs,” Trump said on Twitter, repeating his claim that higher duty rates meant Washington collected billions of dollars from the Asian economy and not US importers.
“China having the worst year in decades. Talks happening, good for all!”
Corporate earnings reports indicate American companies have been hit by rising tariffs and trade uncertainty. A report released this week said more than 10,000 job cuts announced last month stemmed from “trade difficulties.”
Trade relations between the two economic powers deteriorated suddenly last month and US duties on hundreds of billions of dollars in Chinese goods are due to rise in October and December.
Trump in recent weeks has insisted that China’s slowing economy will pressure Beijing into cutting a deal favourable to the US. There are mounting signs the trade war has also begun to weigh on the US economy, however.
Larry Kudlow, a top Trump economic adviser, told CNBC on Friday the face-to-face talks will resume in a calmer atmosphere despite steadily escalating tariffs.
“I don’t want to predict anything. I’m just saying it is good thing that they’re coming here, and tempers are calmer,” Kudlow said.
“We would love to go back to where we were in May, where we were getting kind of close to an agreement, maybe 90 percent of the way,” he added.
“It’s very positive that we negotiate and it may well be that something positive comes out of that.”
After months of positive signals from both sides, talks abruptly broke up in May as US officials accused their Chinese counterparts of retracting core commitments made up to that point.
Accusing the tech company of bias toward Democrats and “hatred” of Republicans, he said lawsuits or legislation were needed to check its power.
Twitter and other social media firms have been facing pressure to curb hate speech and extremist propaganda, blocking accounts of many conspiracy theorists. But Trump and his allies contend that the purge has also silenced conservative voices.
Trump has 61 million Twitter followers and has used the platform as a powerful political instrument, but he complained bitterly that his message was being blocked.
“What they did to me on Twitter is incredible,” Trump said. “I have millions and millions of followers, but I will tell you they make it very hard for people to join me on Twitter, and they make it very hard for me to get out the message.”
The president accused Twitter of being “just terrible what they do” and said he would get fairer treatment if he became a Democrat.
“They don’t let you get the word out. I’ve had so many people come to me, Sir, I can’t get you on Twitter,” he added.
Asked what should be done about it, Trump responded: “You may need legislation in order to create competition.”
The lawsuit is in response to President Donald Trump’s announcement this week that his administration was revoking a waiver accorded to California over the past 50 years to set its own vehicle emissions standards which are tougher than those imposed by the federal government.
The waiver over the years has helped the state — which has some of the most polluted cities in the country — to improve its air quality and become a model for battling climate change.
“Two courts have already upheld California’s emissions standards, rejecting the argument the Trump Administration resurrects to justify its misguided Preemption Rule,” California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement.
“Yet, the Administration insists on attacking the authority of California and other states to tackle air pollution and protect public health.”
“Mr. President, we’ll see you in court,” he added.
Mary Nichols, chair of the California Air Resources Board, has warned that the rollback by the Trump administration will force millions of Americans to “breathe filthier air” if it prevails.
“This is the fight of a lifetime for us,” she said. “We have to win this, and I believe we will.”
Trump’s announcement this week came after California reached a deal with major automakers to produce more fuel-efficient cars for the US market, infuriating federal authorities who claimed the agreement violated anti-trust laws.
The administration argues that higher standards lead to higher costs for consumers, depressing the new car market and resulting in more old and unsafe vehicles on the roads.
"We had two ways to end the occupation in Afghanistan, one was jihad and fighting, the other was talks and negotiations," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told AFP.
"If Trump wants to stop talks, we will take the first way and they will soon regret it."
The Taliban's statement came hours after Trump told reporters that the US was walking away from negotiations after nearly a year of talks that aimed to pave the way for an American withdrawal from Afghanistan following 18 years of war.
"They are dead. As far as I am concerned, they are dead," Trump said at the White House.
The announcement followed Trump's dramatic cancellation of a top-secret plan to fly Taliban leaders in for direct talks at the Camp David presidential facility outside Washington.
Driving another nail into the coffin of what had appeared to be nearly finalised negotiations, Trump said a US military onslaught on the guerrillas was at its fiercest level in a decade.
"Over the last four days, we have been hitting our Enemy harder than at any time in the last ten years!" he wrote in a tweet.
On Sunday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that "we've killed over a thousand Taliban in just the last 10 days."
Trump angrily denied that the whiplash effect of his sudden shifts on Afghanistan was causing turmoil.
 'My own advice' 
Until this weekend, there had been steadily mounting expectations of a deal that would see the US draw down troop levels in Afghanistan. 
In return, the Taliban would offer security guarantees to keep extremist groups out.
But then on Saturday, Trump revealed that he had cancelled an unprecedented meeting between the Taliban and himself at storied Camp David.
He said this was in retaliation for the killing of a US soldier by the Taliban in a huge Kabul bomb blast last week.
The cancellation -- announced on Twitter -- was the first time most Americans learned that such a dramatic meeting was even planned.
Many in Washington were shocked and some were angry that the Taliban had been about to visit the presidential retreat on the eve of the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks.
There was also widespread consternation at the characteristically unpredictable manner of Trump's negotiating style.
But Trump denied any discord among government members including Vice President Mike Pence.
In a tweet, he accused journalists of trying "to create the look of turmoil in the White House, of which there is none".
Trump added that he had no second thoughts about his actions.
"In terms of advisers, I took my own advice," he later told reporters.
 'Murdering too many people' 
A big part of Trump's 2016 election victory and subsequent first term in office has been his determination to keep the US out of what he sees as unnecessary wars in Syria and other mostly Muslim countries.
Despite a fiercely pro-Israeli foreign policy and the presence of hawks like national security adviser John Bolton in his cabinet, he has so far resisted escalating the military standoff with longtime foe Iran.
Getting out of Afghanistan, where US troops have fought a largely fruitless battle against the Taliban over nearly two decades, was a top priority.
It is widely thought that Trump has been pushing for a withdrawal of US troops in time for his 2020 reelection bid.
Trump repeated on Monday that he wanted "to get out by the earliest possible time".
However, whether because of last week's killing of a US soldier, as he says or due to wider misgivings, that goal now appears in tatters.
"They did a mistake," Trump said of the Taliban's deadly bomb attack.
Several Republican lawmakers concurred with the president's decision on the talks.
"I've never believed that a deal with the Taliban is either easy or imminent," Senator Marco Rubio said.
Senator Mitt Romney said that "it wouldn't have been my choice to have the Taliban at Camp David" -- an opinion echoed by Senator Ron Johnson, who said he was "glad" the talks were not held there.
"I don't see where those negotiations go. At some point in time if you want peace you have to talk to them, I don't deny that," said Johnson.
"But right now they're murdering too many people."
The United States already enforces widespread sanctions that have crippled Iran's economy, including attempting to shut down its major oil export industry.
There were no immediate details on what the new measures might be.
Trump has yet to put categorical blame on Iran for last weekend's bombardment by drones or missiles of Saudi oil facilities. However, a US official has confirmed to AFP that the administration believes Iran is responsible.
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is due shortly in Saudi Arabia to meet with the petro-state's de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, to discuss a response.
Trump faces pressure from some quarters in Washington to go to war against Iran but he has so far resisted expanding US military entanglements abroad.
Huthi insurgents in Yemen, who have Iranian backing and are fighting Saudi-backed forces, say they sent drones to bomb the Saudi facilities. Iran denies carrying out the attack.
“As your President, one would think that I would be thrilled with our very strong dollar. I am not!” he said.
“The Fed’s high-interest rate level, in comparison to other countries, is keeping the dollar high, making it more difficult for our great manufacturers like Caterpillar, Boeing, … John Deere, our car companies, & others, to compete on a level playing field.”
The latest outburst comes amid the escalating trade war with China — days after the US Treasury labelled Beijing a currency manipulator for allowing the yuan to depreciate slightly in the face of new US tariffs — and the comments appeared to edge closer to a currency war.
For decades, US administrations of both parties have steadfastly advocated keeping the dollar strong since that provides stability and can hold down inflation by making imported goods less expensive.
But a strong currency also makes US exports more expensive. Caterpillar has lowered earnings targets for this year, given declining sales in China amid the exchange of tariffs.
Trump has been relentlessly pressuring the Fed to cut interest rates in almost daily tweets.
“With substantial Fed Cuts (there is no inflation) … the dollar will make it possible for our companies to win against any competition,” he said. 
But the US central bankers “have called it wrong at every step of the way.”
Though these gaffes have reaffirmed President Trump’s garrulous nature and intensified his proclivity for prejudice against minorities, they are also a dent to the public image of the United States (U.S.) as a foremost bastion of democracy and its majesty. That unguarded remark smacks of a threat to global peace. This is an unfortunate development in a world that is in dire need of inclusion for security and sustainability. It is a indeed another shameful manifestation.
Trump’s latest remark came as a tweet lashing out at the four women members of the U.S. House of Representatives, who were embroiled in a clash with House leaders over border funding. In reaction to their bold submission at the House, Trump had tweeted: “So interesting to see ‘Progressive’ Democrat Congresswomen, who originally came from countries whose governments are a complete and total catastrophe, the worst, most corrupt and inept anywhere in the world (if they even have a functioning government at all), now loudly and viciously telling the people of the United States, the greatest and most powerful nation on earth, how our government is to be run. Why don’t they go back and help fix the totally broken and crime- infested places from which they came?”
It should be recalled that that was not the first time that President Trump had flaunted his racist and xenophobic remarks with glee. At the beginning of his tenure, he had attacked blacks as lazy, dubbed Mexicans rapists and had called for a total shutdown of Muslims entering the U.S. Two years ago, he declined to condemn the anti-Semitic and racist actions of white supremacists in Charlottesville. Earlier in the year, the loquacious U.S. leader called African nations “shithole countries,” a comment he later regretted and for which his government apologised.
Added to his incurable racist mindset is his utter disregard and disdain for women. That Trump disrespects women and considers them expendable was demonstrated by his treatment of the allegations levelled against him by women with whom he had allegedly had affairs. One of such mistresses, Playboy playmate Karen McDougal, had told The New Yorker, that Trump’s inflammatory comments about race and gender were so offensive that she had to break off the relationship.
It is therefore not surprising that Trump would lose all props of rationality when the respectable American women lawmakers he contends with are descendants of immigrants, coloured or black and worse of all Muslim.
For many like Trump, who might have lost their sense of history, they should be reminded that some of the cherished values of democracy, which America takes pride in as its heritage, were championed by women. No American who understands the evil of injustice would forget Ms Rosa Parks, whose singular act of defiance to colour bar was instrumental in black American integration in the United States. Equally true is the claim that modern day United States would not forget the contributions of former Secretaries of State Madeline Albright and Condoleeza Rice, and former U.S. Under-Secretary for Africa, Susan Rice, to foreign relations.
Besides, would they also forget the contributions of the hidden black female mathematicians (Katherine Johnson, Dorothy Vaughan, Mary Jackson) of National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to the space race?
It is common knowledge that Trump, like many White Americans claiming the land, is a product of immigration. There has been a claim that his grandfather, Frederic Trump, a German immigrant to the U.S., was a persona non grata in his German homeland and a notorious rascal. Therefore, being himself a descendant of an immigrant, Donald Trump owes no greater claim to the U.S. than other immigrants. If Trump’s racist comments are attempts to voice out the White supremacists’ claim to America, what would the original owners of the land, the Red Indians, say? Perhaps, as many have conjectured, these moves by Trump seem like a preamble to a more fundamental agenda of promoting a White Christian nationalism with Zionist sympathies. But who knows?
By consistently stoking prejudice against minorities, Trump is building an edifice of acrimony and intolerance, and thereby debranding America. He is exposing the worst of America and reconditioning that enviable nation into a wild and weird country. That Trump would react to distinguished members of the House, like an untamed street urchin would to his peers, suggests that he has no respect for institutions. He is therefore a danger to the prospect of democracy and he is a danger to the world.
As this newspaper stated when Trump made his careless ‘shithole’ remarks, it bears repeating once again and always that the immense contribution of African immigrants to the economic and political development of the United States is a fundamental historical truth about the rise of that country. Latest findings coming out in the wake of Trump’s comment, showed that most of the African immigrants in the U.S. were likely to be the best from their countries of origin. Many of them have come into the U.S., earned higher degrees and a good number have fared better than White Americans of the same social status.
To deride these honest and hardworking Americans – descendants of immigrants contributing their own quota to the development of the U.S., simply because of their ancestry – is the meanest display of contempt and ingratitude to the complementarity and diversity bestowed on humankind by God.
It is for this reason that The Guardian always condemns the senseless attempt by Trump to rehash classical racism and brutal White ethnocentric tendencies under whatever guise. Thus we are unequivocal in stating as follows: If America as a nation lays claim to anything good and beautiful it has acquired in the cause of its nationhood, it did not earn such from the white community alone. Everything that has made America great today has the historical and cultural imprints of its different peoples, be they Asians, Europeans, Hispanics, and most especially peoples of African descent.
Outsiders may not be the ones to tell Trump the history of his country, but when he embarks on willful amnesia to put the world in jeopardy, any lover of truth and justice, irrespective of their race or nation has a moral responsibility to call him to order. Trump’s ‘go back’ comment is an injury to the contribution of minorities and insult to the multiculturalism that has made the United States of America the great country that it is today. Trump must recognise his misguided remarks and apologise to the four women.
Whilst Trump may mean well for his country, he should be counselled about the fact that America is the microcosm of the human race, and that he would do well to respect the greatness of the United States by recognising the humanity of its people. To Trump, the immortal words of the late Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, Thurgood Marshal, is apposite: “In recognising the humanity of our fellow beings, we pay ourselves the highest tribute.”






The occasion is used to showcase landmark achievements within the short period. This magical 100 days, in some states, seems to be given more attention than thereafter. For, if the strength, vigor and commitment of the first 100 days are sustained, many states would be transformed. Unfortunately, quite often, the tempo goes down and the drive is relaxed.
It needs to be pointed out, that there seems to be a misunderstanding of what the first 100 days is meant to serve. Whereas, agenda setting by way of declarations and enactment of laws meant to drive the administration is the purpose of the first 100 days, focus appears to have shifted to what people could see as achievement, as against the unseen strategic plans that should be made to drive governance, which, originally, is the purpose of the first 100 days.
The idea of first 100 days came from the United States of America under President Franklin Roosevelt, the 32nd President of the United States, who was inaugurated on March 4, 1933. Roosevelt’s preoccupation wasn’t necessarily physical infrastructural development but on strategic ideas that could drive his government and change the ugly state of affairs caused by the Great Depression.
Consequently, over the period of his first 100 days, Roosevelt presented a series of initiatives to congress designed to counter the impacts of the Great Depression. He signaled his intention to move with unprecedented speed to tackle the problems confronting the nation in his inaugural speech. He declared: “I am prepared to recommend the measures that a stricken nation in the midst of a stricken world may require.”
Thus, the specific priorities at the outset of his presidency were getting Americans back to work, protecting their savings and creating prosperity, providing relief for the sick and elderly, getting industry and agriculture back on their feet. In order to achieve these lofty goals, Roosevelt enacted 13 major laws in the first 100 days of his presidential term. Ever since then, the first 100 days has assumed a symbolic significance and the period is considered a benchmark to measure the early success of a successful administration.
Barack Obama, the 44th President of the United States warned that he should not be judged by his first 100 days. He said, “The first 100 days is going to be important, but it’s probably going to be the first thousand days that makes the difference.
Obama’s undertakings during his first 100 days included signing the Lilly Ledbetter Fair pay Act of 2009; signing into law the expanded State Children’s Health Insurance Programme (S-CHIP); winning approval of a congressional budget resolution that put Congress on record as dedicated to dealing with major health issues; breaking from the Bush administration on a number of policy fronts, except for Iraq, which he followed through on Bush’s Iraq withdrawal of U.S. troops, etc. At the end of the first 100 days, 65 per cent of Americans approved of how Obama was doing and 29 per cent disapproved.
Donald Trump, the 45th President of the United States was inaugurated on January 20, 2017 the day his first 100 days began. One of his major achievement made as part of his “100-day pledge” was the confirmation of Neil Gorsuch as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. Trump was unable to fulfill his major pledges in his first 100 days and had an approval rating of between 40 and 42 per cent, the “lowest for any first term president at this point in his tenure. Trump signed 24 executive orders in his first 100 days, said to be the most executive orders of any President since World War II.
The foregoing shows that the concept of first 100 days entails setting the direction of governance. It is meant to chart the way the administration is headed and not an end in itself. People should be able to know the direction the government is headed based on the declarations, laws, and executive bills signed during the first 100 days.
If a president or governor builds a bridge within the first 100 days and relaxes thereafter, it is meaningless. Instead, a single pronouncement made, a critical act signed into law, executive orders signed to drive governance are more meaningful than building a road or two and clinging unto them as major accomplishments. These are normal daily issues of governance.
Another thing I would like to point out is that though the idea of the first 100 days is presidential from origin, state governors have adopted it and appear to own it more than the president. There is absolutely nothing wrong with that so long as the right thing is done. Whatever would push the leadership into positive action is welcome.
In Imo State, like in other states, Governor Emeka Ihedioha, is gearing to mark his first 100 days in office by flaunting a number of interventions he has made since assuming office on May 29, 2019.
For me, the greatest achievement of Ihedioha within his first 100 days is his uncommon resolve and determination to recover all the “stolen” properties and misappropriated funds belonging to the Imo State Government under the leadership of his predecessor, Rochas Okorocha.
To achieve that, Ihedioha set up a number of high-powered panels to pursue the recovery agenda from different fronts. The declaration of citizen arrest against Okorocha by Ihedioha, for assaulting the chairman of the Imo State Movable Assets Recovery Committee, Jaspar Ndubuaku, is historic. It shows the government is not joking but means business. Ihedioha went further to sign six Executive bills, and reduced the over bloated ministries from 31 to 18. All these point to a government that stands for prudence and abhors wastage.
The introduction of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) is remarkable as a means of plugging avenues for frittering away government financial resources. By this singular act, Imo State has become the third state in the federation after Lagos and Kaduna states that have adopted the TSA.
Through TSA, funds that would have been frittered away by fraudulent officials in ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) would now be saved to serve more useful purpose. It is, therefore, not surprising that Ihedioha has reenacted a pension reform policy to ensure that henceforth, pensioners would not suffer again. The previous administration under Okorocha totally forgot pensioners and owed them their meagre pay over the eight years of his rule. Many died in abject poverty.
The health of Imo citizens has been neglected over the years. Ihedioha’s policy to align with the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) through the State Health Insurance Scheme (SHIS) is a step in the right direction.
By signing into this policy, state government workers would be able to access healthcare services that were far removed from them. Government should be able to extend this service to the rest of the citizens that are not necessarily under government employment. To ensure that citizens access quality healthcare nearest to them, Ihedioha should take a critical look at the 27 abandoned general hospitals with a view to reevaluating and completing the critical ones.
Since the hospitals were sited indiscriminately without consideration of need, Ihedioha should review the projects with a view to completing the ones that are needed in local government councils that have no such healthcare facility. Those in councils with existing healthcare facility should be cancelled.
I didn’t see any strategic declaration on education in Imo State. The erstwhile governor initiated a free education policy that is people-oriented. Even though, it was not well-managed, the incumbent governor ought to make a statement on how he intends to make it better.
It is obvious that Ihedioha has tried to intervene in many problems facing Imo State. Like Obama, he inherited a state that was devastated and practically left forlorn. That being the case, he should be firm, forthright and open minded to correct the ravages that were inflicted on the state.
What matters is that one had a historical opportunity to preside over the affairs of the people and make their lives better. Leaving a positive legacy is important. Papering over issues to please political interests will boomerang. Ihedioha should concentrate on righting the wrongs done to Imo State without making noise.






Today, he is once again in the hunt for the US presidency, and atop the list of 18 candidates formally vying for the Democratic nomination.
But his early lead could prove to be divisive as the party seeks to oust Donald Trump from the Oval Office in 2020.
Sanders, a 77-year-old self-described Democratic socialist from Vermont, is so far running from a position of strength, even as fresh new faces like “Mayor Pete” Buttigieg are making headlines.
Of course, the Wall Street foe is still running second in opinion polls to 76-year-old former vice president Joe Biden, who hasn’t officially thrown his hat in the ring.
But fans of Sanders, who favors universal health care and steep taxes on the wealthy, are on board once again, if donations are any indication.
He has more than $18 million in his campaign war chest so far, more than any other Democrat in the race. And most of those donations — 84 percent — were less than $200.
– Bernie gets cheers on Fox News –
Sanders seems ready for the fight — he held a high-energy town hall meeting on Fox News Monday night, which other Democrats have shunned, and earned praise for his efforts.
Trump, who is known to spend a fair bit of time watching the channel, even commented on his performance.
“I believe it will be Crazy Bernie Sanders vs. Sleepy Joe Biden as the two finalists” for the Democrats, Trump tweeted. “I look forward to facing whoever it may be.”
But for Ester Fuchs, a professor of political science at Columbia University in New York, that outcome is far from being a certainty.
“It is so early,” Fuchs told AFP. “He has high name recognition, which affects his standing in the polls, which also affects fundraising.”
But even if Democratic voters are leaning more to the left than before, Fuchs believes the younger, more moderate candidates like former Texas congressman Beto O’Rourke, California senator Kamala Harris and Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, are “going to blow him out of the water.”
And this time around, the media — which gave Sanders “a free ride” in 2016, Fuchs says, because “nobody took him seriously” — are not going to be as forgiving.
 ‘Never Bernie’ ? 
While Sanders is well positioned for now, and a win in the primaries would not exactly be a shock, it’s too early to talk about a frontrunner, says Kyle Kondik, an analyst at the University of Virginia Center for Politics.
For Kondik, the key to Sanders’ eventual success will be if he can rally support beyond his traditional support base.
“Once the field gets smaller, will he grow his support or stagnate?” Kondik said. “I am just not positive that the party is going to rally around him.”
Of course, Sanders is not technically a Democrat — he’s an independent who caucuses with Democrats on Capitol Hill and only wears the party’s stripes for primary purposes, analysts note.
If he remains ahead of the pack, a ‘Never Bernie’ movement — similar to one that sprouted up in the Republican Party against Trump in 2016 — could take root, Kondik says.
But on the flip side, if he fails once again to win the nomination, “it is not clear that he will step up and rally to support the standard-bearer,” Fuchs says.
Indeed, the party’s establishment is still bitter about his last run, believing that his supporters failed to sufficiently back Clinton in her battle with Trump. This time around, that could happen again.
One thing is for sure: Sanders will try to turn the hostility towards him emanating from the party’s upper echelons into a political asset.
In a fundraising message Wednesday, he slammed “some of the wealthiest members of the political establishment” for “plotting how to defeat our political revolution.”
A top White House official admitted Thursday that President Donald Trump had tied military aid for Ukraine to Kiev undertaking an investigation that would help Trump politically, adding ammunition to Democrats’ impeachment probe.
Acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney’s stunning admission supports a key allegation in the House impeachment effort, that the president illicitly sought foreign political help as he seeks re-election next year.
Mulvaney said it was true that Trump used the aid to prod Kiev in July to investigate the allegation — widely viewed as groundless — that the Democratic National Committee had hidden a computer server in Ukraine that would undermine claims that Trump’s 2016 election victory was helped by Russian meddling.
Trump did not want to send nearly $400 million in military aid to Ukraine because the country was deeply corrupt, Mulvaney said.
“Did he also mention to me in passing the corruption related to the DNC server? Absolutely. No question about that,” Mulvaney told reporters.
“That’s it, and that’s why we held up the money.”
 ‘From bad to worse’ 
Hours later, Mulvaney abruptly recanted.
“Let me be clear, there was absolutely no quid pro quo between Ukrainian military aid and any investigation into the 2016 election,” he said in a statement.
“The president never told me to withhold any money until the Ukrainians did anything related to the server.”
Nevertheless, his initial admission appeared to support Democrats’ charges that Trump abused his power and violated election laws.
“Mulvaney just said that US military aid for Ukraine was held up pending Ukraine’s investigation of Democrats,” tweeted Adam Schiff, the House Intelligence Committee chairman who is leading the impeachment inquiry.
“Things just went from very, very bad to much, much worse,” he said.
But Mulvaney argued that Trump had done nothing wrong, because he acted in support of a Justice Department probe into the origins of 2016 Russian meddling allegations.
And Mulvaney denied that Trump also tied the aid to Ukraine investigating a top Democratic rival, Joe Biden, ahead of the 2020 vote.
That Biden allegation is the other key leg of Democrats’ charges against Trump.
“The money held up had absolutely nothing to do with Biden,” he said.
 Dramatic revelations 
Mulvaney’s comments added to a dramatic day in which a senior diplomat told Congressional investigators that Trump and his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani sought political help from Ukraine. Trump also announced that US Energy Secretary Rick Perry, who was deeply involved in Ukraine talks, was stepping down.
Word of Perry’s departure came a day after the publication of an interview in which Perry said that — on Trump’s orders — he had communicated with Giuliani over alleged corruption in Ukraine.
Trump said Perry had told him of his plans to resign months ago.
Gordon Sondland, the US ambassador to the European Union, said in written testimony that Trump ordered diplomats in May to involve Giuliani in talks with new Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky.
Giuliani, he said, sought to pressure Zelensky to investigate Biden and Biden’s son over ties to a Ukraine energy company, Burisma, as well as to find evidence for the 2016 Democratic server theory. Hunter Biden served on the board of Burisma for five years until April this year.
“Mr Giuliani specifically mentioned the 2016 election (including the DNC server) and Burisma as two anti-corruption investigatory topics of importance for the president,” Sondland said.
“I did not understand, until much later, that Mr Giuliani’s agenda might have also included an effort to prompt the Ukrainians to investigate Vice President Biden or his son or to involve Ukrainians, directly or indirectly, in the president’s 2020 re-election campaign,” he said.
 Evidence Trump abused powers 
Sondland, a businessman who was appointed ambassador after donating $1 million to Trump’s inauguration festivities, sought to distance himself from the political storm enveloping the White House.
Sondland said Giuliani was the principal messenger, and that he had few communications with the president’s lawyer.
“My understanding was that the president directed Mr. Giuliani’s participation, that Mr. Giuliani was expressing the concerns of the president,” Sondland stated.
“Our view was that the men and women of the State Department, not the president’s personal lawyer, should take responsibility for all aspects of US foreign policy towards Ukraine.”
 Eight witnesses 
Sondland was the eighth witness to testify to the three House committees leading the impeachment investigation, all defying White House efforts to block them from appearing.
Democrats appear increasingly likely to unveil articles of impeachment — formal charges — before the end of the year.
If approved by the Democrat-dominated House of Representatives, Trump would then go on trial for removal in the Senate, where Republicans have the majority.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi denied Thursday that the investigation was politically driven, and said there was no timeline.
“None of us came to Congress to impeach a president,” she told reporters. “Any such actions are to be taken very solemnly, seriously and in my view prayerfully.”
“Once again, Israel faces a barrage of deadly rocket attacks by terrorist groups Hamas and Islamic Jihad. We support Israel 100% in its defence of its citizens,” Trump tweeted.
“To the Gazan people — these terrorist acts against Israel will bring you nothing but more misery. END the violence and work towards peace – it can happen!”
Trump’s message came in the wake of the most serious escalation since the 2014 war, with 19 Palestinians killed in the Gaza Strip and four in Israel.
The tiny, densely populated enclave’s health ministry said among those killed on Sunday were a pregnant woman and a four-month-old baby. The Israeli military declined to comment on the claim.
At least nine of those killed were confirmed to be militants affiliated with the Palestinian territory’s leaders Hamas or the allied Islamic Jihad group.
On the Israeli side, four civilians were killed as Hamas and Islamic Jihad fired barrages of rockets and at least one anti-tank missile from the enclave, Israeli authorities said.
Three of the dead were identified by authorities as Israeli citizens, with the nationality of the fourth not announced.
Israeli targets included internal security headquarters in the Palestinian enclave, an interior ministry statement said.
The Trump administration has closely aligned itself with Israel’s right wing. 
The president’s son-in-law and advisor Jared Kushner has indicated that an upcoming US peace plan for the Middle will pull back from long-standing mentions of a two-state solution with the Palestinians and accept Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.
The Palestinian leadership has already said it does not accept mediation by Trump, whose evangelical Christian base is fervently pro-Israel and whose long list of actions in support of the Jewish state includes moving the US embassy to Jerusalem.
Israel considers the holy city its eternal capital, but Palestinians want east Jerusalem as part of a future state.
“If necessary, we would do it,” he answered when asked at a news conference if he would meet with Trump personally to seek an agreement to avoid the American leader’s threatened tariffs.
Initial tariffs of five percent are due to come into force Monday, and rise gradually to 25 percent by October — Trump’s bid to force Mexico to do more to stop the flow of migrants and drugs across the countries’ shared border.
Lopez Obrador, who has sought to avoid confrontation and sounded upbeat on the possibility of reaching a deal, was also asked about Trump’s comments earlier in the day that he thought it was more likely than not the tariffs would be imposed despite Mexico’s efforts to negotiate.
“It’s likely we will reach an agreement, and we are going to continue insisting that talks are the way to go,” said the leftist leader, who took office in December.
The Mexican president has sent a high-level delegation to Washington to negotiate with US officials, led by Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard, who is due to meet Wednesday with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
Lopez Obrador said he wanted to let that process run its course before meeting with Trump himself.
“The talks are going very well, the meeting with the US secretary of commerce, with the secretary of agriculture, meetings with US officials. I’m optimistic. I think tomorrow’s meeting (with Pompeo) is going to be important, and we’re going to reach a deal before June 10,” he said.
“There are indications that it’s important to US officials to reach a deal.”
Separately, the Mexican foreign ministry said the Mexican delegation would meet later Tuesday with top Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House of Representatives, and other members of Congress.
Trump’s surprise tariff threat has caused panic in Mexico, which sends 80 percent of its exports to the United States.
But Mexican officials warn the tariffs — and likely retaliatory measures — would be painful for the US, too.
Mexico has been the largest US trading partner so far this year, thanks mainly to Trump’s trade war with China, which previously held the top spot.
“Based on the facts and the applicable legal standards, however, we are unable to reach that judgement.”
More details soon
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. (Photo by Adem ALTAN / AFP)
Erdogan told Trump of his “frustration over the US military and security bureaucracy’s failure to implement the deal” agreed in August to establish a buffer zone on the Turkish border, the presidency said in a statement.
It added that the visit would take place after an invitation from Trump.There had been expectations in Turkey of a Trump-Erdogan meeting on Syria last month on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, but it did not take place.
The Turkish leader had raised the temperature on Saturday by warning that Ankara could launch a cross-border offensive “as soon as today, tomorrow”, putting pressure on the United States.
Turkish state media also reported on military reinforcements sent to the border with Syria after Erdogan’s comments.
Washington has sought to stop any Turkish operation against a US-backed Syrian Kurdish militia viewed by Ankara as a “terrorist” offshoot of Kurdish militants in Turkey.
The US worked closely with the People’s Protection Units (YPG) militia against the Islamic State (IS) group, capturing swathes of territory from the jihadists.
After difficult US-Turkey talks ended with the August agreement, Turkish and American forces held joint ground and air patrols in northern Syria.
However, Turkey accused the US of stalling over the establishment of the “safe zone”.
The two leaders discussed the “safe zone” during the call in which Erdogan told Trump it would create the “necessary conditions” for Syrian refugees to return to Syria.
Turkey is hosting over 3.6 million Syrian refugees but there has been a growing public backlash in recent months against their presence in Turkey.
With some Western capitals concerned over any unilateral Turkish operation’s impact on the fight against IS jihadists, Erdogan insisted Turkey would take the “necessary precautions” to ensure there was no extremist resurgence in the region.
Turkey twice launched military operations against IS in 2016 and the YPG in 2018, supporting Syrian rebels to take territory in northern Syria.






Johnson and Trump
Only on Tuesday, 11,000 scientists were reported to have spoken out on the alarming situation of climate change, stating: “We declare clearly and unequivocally that planet Earth is facing a climate emergency. To secure a sustainable future, we must change how we live. This entails major transformations in the ways our global society functions and interacts with natural ecosystems.” The report stating that there is no time to lose, quoted the scientists from 153 nations as saying: “The climate crisis has arrived faster than most scientists expected. It is more severe than anticipated, threatening natural ecosystems and the fate of humanity.” They believe that urgent changes needed include ending population expansion, currently growing at a rate of 200,000 persons a day, ending destruction of nature and restoring forests and mangroves to absorb CO2. The report made reference to the one published in 2017 warning on the danger of pollution and what was called a looming mass extinction of wildlife on Earth. It similarly made reference to the one of 1992 captioned “World Scientists’ Warning to Humanity” which touchingly said: “A great change in our stewardship of the Earth and the life on it is required, if vast human misery is to be avoided.”
Fearing that large areas of the Earth may become uninhabitable as “especially disturbing” impacts of the climate emergency’ rage, the scientists say they are urging “widespread use of the vital signs to allow policy makers and the public to understand the magnitude of the crisis, realign priorities and track progress. You don’t need to be a rocket scientist to look at the graphs and know things are going wrong.” One of the scientists said: “It is more important than ever that we speak out, based on evidence. It is time to go beyond just research and publishing and to go directly to the citizens and policymakers.”
The publication of the report coincides with Trump’s formal request to withdraw America from the Paris Climate Change Agreement designed to reduce industrial emissions of which his predecessor Barrack Obama was a major driver. The earth is evidently out of joint. Added to the throes of climate change emergency are existential problems of insecurity and socio-economic concerns in our own land, Nigeria. Predictably, the solutions to the problems afflicting the land are being seen from different perspectives. The greater the sufferings the more the recourse to the transcendental, it has been observed. Churches and mosques sprout in towns and villages. The powerful school of thought, made up of largely the elite and those who are materially comfortable, believes that the solution lies not in prayers but in thinking and hard work. Their thesis is if it were not so, why is Nigeria the world’s poverty capital. They say Nigeria is a prayer- loving, God-fearing nation. “Religion has taken the place of technology, infrastructure, education etc.” They are irritated that the world is leaving Nigeria behind while Nigerians pre-occupy themselves with the Almighty Creator. This class argues that despite the fact that they did not bother themselves with the presence of the Creator in their lives they had had it so good. So what do they need an “unseen God” for in their lives? They make such shocking irreverent reference to the Most High, sometimes bordering on blasphemy. 
To remind us, the subject of today’s conversation arose from a speech made in which it was said that while Nigerians were praying Singapore went into investment in technology. “After independence, in order to build a great nation, each country went to work. But in Nigeria, after independence (in 1960) our people went to pray and fast. While we were praying, Malaysia came here and took our palm seedlings and built a great factory of it. While we were praying, China went into massive industrialization; while we were speaking in tongues, Denmark went into education of her citizens. While we were mounting big speakers in our places of worship, USA mounted man on the moon. After our prayers, God being a wise God, decided to reward us according to our labour.”
The questions that would naturally arise in the minds of most people are: What is the place of prayers in the lives of a human being? Does a man need to pray? Are prayers of any effect? What are prayers? Who is he who prays? How do we pray? Are prayers incompatible with technological development aspirations of a people or nation? And more!  
Prayers are seeking to enter into quiet communion with the Almighty Creator. This is for a number of reasons. I will come back to this presently. Where to begin, in my view, is to ask who is man. Man is a spirit. He is from Spiritual Realm more widely referred to as Paradise. With substances of intervening planes between his Spiritual Home and the earth he wraps around himself to become a soul and the material substances of the earth to become an earthman. The wrappings which are the cloaks are to enable him to manifest on the different planes he traversed as well as on earth. Without the earthly cloak, he would not have been able to anchor; he would be floating. In consequence he would not be able to work and develop to achieve the purpose of his sojourn on earth. That purpose is to develop into a self-conscious spiritual and noble personality. He is therefore in a school and after a successful graduation he returns to his Native Land, the Spiritual Realm, Paradise. To pass he must familiarize himself with the Will of the Creator and interweave it in all his activities. Teachers and prophets were sent according to needs, in accordance with the level of development and the capacity to absorb the teachings. 
They incarnated among peoples who had developed such that they could easily grasp and absorb the teachings and then spread the same to other parts of the world where there was soil for receptivity. What all of them taught was recognition of the Will of God and the imperative of living according to it because it is the precondition to enter Paradise. Have we forgotten our vow when we say the Lord’s Prayer: “Thy Will be done on earth as it is in Heaven”? It is also by doing this Will that His Kingdom can come, that is it is by doing His Will that His Kingdom can be established on earth. Indeed, it revealed in higher knowledge spreading on earth today that not until the coming of the Lord Christ was it possible to open the Gates of Paradise to pure and noble human spirits who had developed to the highest degree they would not constitute themselves into nuisance there. No one can thus enter paradise that has not washed his linen clean!
It can be seen from the foregoing that being Spirits we naturally long to establish links with Paradise, our native spiritual land. As such prayer becomes the way to weave the threads and forge the links. Over millennia, human beings flow in the inclination and proclivity to look upwards and pray. Prayer is also borne out of the recognition of a Higher Power in the affairs of men. It is a natural urge in man to shake off his karma, to improve his condition. Men over the ages have certainly experienced the efficacy of prayers in their lives, or in the lives of relations, neighbours or acquaintances. Any wonder the lamentation of Americans that God is being taken away from their lives, from their homes, from their schools and Godlessness is the order of the day in the proverbial God’s Own Country. Political analysts attribute  Mr. Trump’s victory in 2016 to his strong belief in the American pristine values as espoused by the Christian faith. 
This can be gleaned from an interesting prayer said by a Church Minister Joe Wright, at the opening session of the Senate in Kansas, USA which goes as follows, contrary to the usual generalities everyone was expecting: “Heavenly Father, we come before you today to ask your forgiveness and to seek Your direction and guidance. We know Your Word says: ‘Woe to those who call evil good’ but that is exactly what we have done.
“We lost our spiritual equilibrium and reversed our values. We have ridiculed the absolute truth of Your Word and called it multiculturalism. We have endorsed perversion and called it alternative lifestyle. We have exploited the poor and called it the lottery. We have rewarded laziness and called it welfare. We have killed our unborn and called it choice. We have hailed abortionists and called it justifiable. We have neglected to discipline our children and called it building self-esteem. We have abused power and called it politics. We have embezzled public funds and called it essential expenses. We have institutionalized  bribery and called it sweets of office. We have polluted the air with profanity and pornography and called it freedom of expression. We have ridiculed the time-honoured values of our forefathers and called it enlightenment. Search us, Oh GOD, and know our hearts today; cleanse us from every sin and set us free. Amen.” The pastor, Rev. Wright thanked Mr. Trump for his abhorrence and condemnation of same sex marriage. His church is said to have received 5,000 phone calls with only 47 disapproving.
Once a prayer is genuine, when it comes from deep a supplicant, the benefits could come in form of him crossing the path of a helper; the prayer could give him strength, the right composure and calmness such that the answer cascades through him, plans suddenly arising in his mind. Guidance could come in his dream, he could hear a voice or he can be given direction and strength so that he himself can solve his problem himself. Through prayers helpers can be summoned to his side in the beyond to give him protection in the time of dangers. 
Prayers and technological attainment are not incompatible. It has been said that the Lord gives to his own in their sleep. It is thus shown that indeed, there are no inventions but revelations. All the so-called inventions are carried down to this earth from a plane in the Beyond and revealed to one who may be open in purity to receive the same, even the most sophisticated of technological wonders. The mistake we often make is to think that it is only those who are overtly religious that can receive blessings from the Creator whereas his mechanisms and messengers deal only with those who are pure and genuine. Purity and nobility of heart engendered by living in accordance with the Divine Laws as the expression of the Will of the Creator are the ways to peace and joy as well as to “technological inventions.” We are, therefore, admonished that Spiritualising the work of our hands is the unavoidable imperative. If we do not have infrastructure, it is owing to our shortcomings, not prayers. It is in the character of an average Nigerian. We may not have been worthy to have our prayers answered! 
The United States has formally notified the United Nations that it is withdrawing from the Paris climate accord, triggering expressions of concern and regret from other major powers on Tuesday.
President Donald Trump went ahead with the pullout despite mounting evidence of the reality and impact of climate change, with September the fourth month in a row with near- or record-breaking temperatures.
Washington presented its withdrawal letter to the UN on the first possible date under the accord negotiated by Trump’s predecessor Barack Obama, making the world’s largest economy the sole outlier from the agreement.
The US will be officially out on November 4, 2020, one day after the presidential election in which Trump is seeking a second term on appeals to the white working class.
Announcing the move, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo reiterated Trump’s rationale in 2017 that the accord would disadvantage US businesses.
“It was America that would suffer the straitjacket,” Pompeo told the Fox Business network. “It would be quintessentially unfair to the American people and to the American workers.”
Pompeo said in a statement that the United States would advocate a “realistic and pragmatic model” that included renewable energy but preserved a role for fossil fuels.
French President Emmanuel Macron, who unsuccessfully tried to persuade Trump to stay in the accord named for his nation’s capital, lamented the decision.
“We regret this and it makes the Franco-Chinese partnership on climate and biodiversity even more necessary,” the French presidency said as Macron visited China, the world’s largest emitter of the greenhouse gases blamed for climate change.
Beijing also expressed “regret” over Washington’s decision ahead of the planned signing Wednesday of a joint document on climate by President Xi Jinping and Macron.
“We hope the US can take more responsibility, and do more to contribute a driving force to the multilateral cooperation process, instead of adding negative energy,” said Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Geng Shuang.
Russia warned that the US withdrawal seriously undermined the Paris accord.
“Without the largest economy in the world, it’s very, very hard to talk about any kind of climate agreement,” President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters.
The United States, the number-two emitter, is still planning to attend this month’s COP climate negotiations in Spain, according to a State Department official.
 Trump rolls back action 
Pompeo in his statement pointed to a 13 percent US reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 to 2017 even as the economy grew.
But Trump, who took office in 2017, has pledged to turn back environmental regulations as states such as California and New York try to take stronger action on their own.
Trump has sought to block California from setting tighter standards on car emissions and moved to let states set their own standards on existing coal-fired power plants.
Robert Menendez, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said that the Trump administration has “once again thumbed its nose at our allies, turned a blind eye to the facts and further politicized the world’s greatest environmental challenge.”
Former vice president-turned-climate champion Al Gore deplored Trump’s decision — but said that a new president could re-enter the Paris accord within 30 days.
“No one person or party can stop our momentum to solve the climate crisis, but those who try will be remembered for their complacency, complicity and mendacity in attempting to sacrifice the planet for their greed,” Gore said.
The Paris accord set a goal of limiting temperature rises to well within two degrees Celsius (3.6 Fahrenheit) from pre-industrial levels, a goal that scientists say is vital to check the worst damage from global warming such as increasing droughts, rising floods and intensifying storms.
 Limited diplomatic effect 
Contrary to some predictions, Trump’s decision did not trigger a domino effect of withdrawals by countries such as Brazil and Australia.
Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, an ideological ally of Trump, has belittled environmentalists but has held off on threats to withdraw from the Paris accord, with the European Union requiring adherence as a condition for a major trade deal.
Trump has cast the climate accord as elitist, saying that he was “elected to represent the citizens of Pittsburgh, not Paris.”
But a Washington Post poll last month found that even in his own party he faces growing opposition on the issue, with 60 percent of Republicans agreeing with the scientific consensus that climate change is caused by human activity.
Trump’s outburst came in a series of sharply worded tweets aimed at Democratic Representative Elijah Cummings — a high-profile critic of Trump’s administration whose district covers much of Baltimore.
“Cumming (sic) District is a disgusting, rat and rodent-infested mess,” the president wrote, calling it “the worst run and most dangerous anywhere in the United States.”
“No human being would want to live there,” he said — in an attack ostensibly provoked by Cummings’ criticism of the harsh conditions facing would-be asylum seekers at the Mexican border.
“Rep. Elijah Cummings has been a brutal bully, shouting and screaming at the great men & women of Border Patrol about conditions at the Southern Border, when actually his Baltimore district is FAR WORSE and more dangerous,” Trump charged.
The president’s morning diatribe ignited a storm of criticism, less than two weeks after the US House of Representatives condemned him for “racist” comments targeting a Somali-born lawmaker.
The top Democrat in Congress, Nancy Pelosi — whose father served as mayor of Baltimore — accused Trump of a “racist” attack.
“@RepCummings is a champion in the Congress and the country for civil rights and economic justice, a beloved leader in Baltimore, and deeply valued colleague,” Pelosi wrote on Twitter. 
“We all reject racist attacks against him and support his steadfast leadership.”
The Democratic mayor of Baltimore Bernard “Jack” Young  — who is black — rejected Trump’s rhetoric as “hurtful and dangerous.”
“It’s completely unacceptable for the political leader of our country to denigrate a vibrant American City like Baltimore, and to viciously attack US Representative Elijah Cummings,” Young wrote in a statement.
Prominent Democratic presidential candidate, Kamala Harris, tweeted that she was “proud” to have her 2020 campaign headquarters in the Cummings district. 
“It’s disgraceful the president has chosen to start his morning disparaging this great American city,” said Harris, one of two leading black candidates in the race to succeed Trump.
Cummings himself tweeted: “Mr. President, I go home to my district daily. Each morning, I wake up, and I go and fight for my neighbors. It is my constitutional duty to conduct oversight of the Executive Branch. But it is my moral duty to fight for my constituents.”
As chairman of the House Oversight Committee, Cummings — one of the most prominent African Americans in Congress — has launched investigations into Trump administration policies, including reports of poor treatment at migrant detention centers. 
Trump’s attack was reminiscent of his recent, racially-charged criticism of four young Democratic lawmakers, all women of color, who he suggested should “go back” to the “crime infested” places they came from. In fact, three were born in the US and all four are American citizens.
Baltimore, a historic port city, presents a mixed picture, with both handsome and affluent neighborhoods and large poverty-stricken districts. It has one of the country’s highest murder rates. 
Cummings’ district is more than 50 percent black — and the city of Baltimore as a whole more than 60 percent.






WASHINGTON, DC – NOVEMBER 25: U.S. President Donald Trump speaks after signing H.R. 724, the Preventing Animal Cruelty and Torture Act, in the Oval Office at the White House on November 25, 2019 in Washington, DC.   Mark Wilson/Getty Images/AFP
In a case involving former White House counsel Don McGahn, who was subpoenaed in May by the House Judiciary Committee, judge Ketanji Jackson ruled Monday that administration officials cannot claim absolute immunity from testifying based on their closeness to the US leader.
While Jackson ruled specifically on McGahn’s case, she said it had broad application to all current and former presidential aides.
“Presidents are not kings,” Jackson wrote in her decision. 
“No one, not even the head of the Executive branch, is above the law.”
She said Congress has the power to subpoena any of the president’s advisors, whether they are involved in domestic policies or sensitive national security issues.
“It goes without saying that the law applies to former White House Counsel Don McGahn, just as it does to other current and former senior-level White House officials,” she wrote.
 No ‘absolute immunity’ 
That ruling could open a path for the House Intelligence Committee — which is building a case for impeachment charges against Trump — to force testimony from three top witnesses: former national security advisor John Bolton, White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.
All are believed to have direct knowledge of Trump’s alleged demand that Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky open investigations into Trump’s Democratic rival Joe Biden in exchange for a high profile summit and much-needed military aid.
“To those witnesses who hide behind fallacious claims of absolute immunity, this ruling shows again how meritless their position remains,” intelligence committee chairman Adam Schiff said in a statement.
“The witnesses who have defied Congress at the behest of the president will have to decide whether their duty is to the country, or to a president who believes that he is above the law.”
The ruling could also give fresh life to the stalled impeachment case in the Judiciary Committee, which has tried to develop charges against Trump for obstructing the Russian collusion investigation led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller.
Mueller’s final report in April outlined 10 acts of alleged obstruction by the president.
“Don McGahn is a central witness to allegations that President Trump obstructed Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation,” Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler said in a statement.
“The administration’s claim that officials can claim ‘absolute immunity’ from Congressional subpoenas has no basis in law, as the court recognized today.”
But testimony won’t happen right away, as the Justice Department plans to appeal Jackson’s decision, said department spokesperson Kerri Kupec.
That could take the case to the Supreme Court, and in the meantime, the department could seek a court stay to prevent McGahn or others from speaking before the two committees.
The increasing prospect of becoming only the third US president formally impeached, after Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, has riled the brash New York billionaire, and he has fired off multiple attacks against rivals leading the effort.
The MSNBC special featured Legend who discussed criminal justice reforms in the United States.
However, Trump who was upset that the report didn’t mention the First Step Act which he signed into law in late December, took to Twitter to voice his displeasure while also shading Legend and Teigen:
“When all of the people pushing so hard for Criminal Justice Reform were unable to come even close to getting it done, they came to me as a group and asked for my help. I got it done with a group of Senators & others who would never have gone for it. Obama couldn’t come close….”
“….A man named @VanJones68, and many others, were profusely grateful (at that time!). I SIGNED IT INTO LAW, no one else did, & Republicans deserve much credit. But now that it is passed, people that had virtually nothing to do with it are taking the praise. Guys like boring…..
“….musician @johnlegend, and his filthy mouthed wife, are talking now about how great it is – but I didn’t see them around when we needed help getting it passed. “Anchor”@LesterHoltNBC doesn’t even bring up the subject of President Trump or the Republicans when talking about….
“….the importance or passage of Criminal Justice Reform. They only talk about the minor players, or people that had nothing to do with it…And the people that so desperately sought my help when everyone else had failed, all they talk about now is Impeaching President Trump!”
John Legend was quick with his replies:
“Imagine being president of a whole country and spending your Sunday night hate-watching MSNBC hoping somebody–ANYBODY–will praise you. Melania, please praise this man. He needs you.”
On her own page, Chrissy Teigen also chimed in:
“The absolute best part of his tweet is I literally didn’t speak in the special, nor was I mentioned. I’m cackling at the pointless addition of me.”
Teigen and Legend are frequent, outspoken critics of Trump.
 
Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and leader of the ruling Justice and Development (AK) Party addresses party members during his party’s parliamentary group meeting at the Turkish National Assembly in Ankara, on October 16, 2019. (Photo by Adem ALTAN / AFP)
“When we take a look at Mr Trump’s Twitter posts, we can no longer follow them. We cannot keep track,” Erdogan told Turkish journalists aboard a plane returning from Baku, in comments carried by the Hurriyet daily.  
Turkey last week began an operation to drive back Syrian Kurdish militants from northern Syria after the US pulled 1,000 troops out of the area. 
The withdrawal was seen as a green light from the White House for the Turkish offensive.
But facing a massive backlash at home, Trump later issued a series of conflicting statements, at times threatening Ankara, and at others, suggesting the US had no role in the fight between Turkey and Kurdish militants.
In one typically contradictory tweet, Trump announced: “Big sanctions on Turkey coming! Do people really think we should go to war with NATO member Turkey? Never-ending wars will end!”
In his interview with the Turkish journalists, Erdogan also shared an anecdote from his telephone call with Trump this week. 
“I told Trump: ‘You get very angry with the media from time to time. You are now under their influence. Don’t listen to them, you are a strong leader. This does not befit a strong leader’,” he said, according to the Yeni Safak daily.
“What a great country,” Trump exclaimed in an address saturated with patriotism and exceptionalism, after critics accused him of hijacking the annual celebration.
“For Americans, nothing is impossible,” he said.
Combat aircraft, including the rarely-seen B2 stealth bomber, flew overhead as Trump scrolled through myriad events of US history, from groundbreaking inventions to battlefield victories. He drew cheers of “USA! USA!” from an enthusiastic rain-soaked audience of tens of thousands on the National Mall in Washington.
Trump promised the United States would soon again send men to the moon, and go beyond to “plant the American flag on Mars.”
“We will always be the people who defeated a tyrant, crossed a continent, harnessed science, took to the skies, and soared into the heavens, because we will never forget that we are Americans, and the future belongs to us.”
 ‘The most exceptional nation’ 
Trump spoke in front of a massive statue of a seated Abraham Lincoln, the heroic 19th century president, where civil rights icon Martin Luther King Jr gave his “I Have a Dream” speech in 1963.
Trump used the traditionally politics-free holiday to deliver shoutouts to each arm of the military, as well as singling out first responders and the controversial Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement agencies that have been criticized for their treatment of migrants.
But he disappointed critics who had warned that Trump, the first president in decades to make a keynote speech on the July 4 holiday, was hijacking the celebration to bolster his own political standing and attack Democratic rivals.
Instead, in a trickling rain, he uncharacteristically avoided talking about himself and his political detractors. He repeatedly ascribed a singular greatness to the country, declaring it “the most exceptional nation in the history of the world.”
“Today, we come together as one nation with this very special Salute to America. We celebrate our history, our people, and the heroes who proudly defend our flag — the brave men and women of the United States military!” he said.
“Our nation is stronger today than it ever was before. It is its strongest now,” he said.
 Patriotic fervor  
The July 4 celebrations usually draw hundreds of thousands of people to the National Mall for picnics and twilight fireworks, and dousings from thunderstorms did not keep away either Trump’s supporters — wearing red caps — nor protesters.
“It’s going to be fabulous, I’m excited,” said Dee Ranson, a 55-year-old from Florida visiting with her family.
“I think it’s awesome, I think it shows courage and patriotic enthusiasm. He is not afraid,” she said before Trump’s speech.
But April Smith, 43, visiting from North Carolina, said she had “no interest” in hearing Trump’s speech, and thought the military “show of power and strength” was unnecessary.
Surrounded by the top officers of the Pentagon, and a panoply of invited Republican officials and VIP donors, the event allowed Trump to stake a strong claim to patriotic fervor 16 months ahead of a presidential election.
Polls show his potential Democratic rivals holding a significant edge over him.
Trump originally wanted a grand military parade for the holiday, ostensibly inspired by France’s rollout of its armed forces on its own national day.
Instead, he got a scaled-back version, with some US armored vehicles parked for display and a flyover by the president’s own Air Force One jet, the B2 bomber, attack helicopters, other warplanes, and the Navy’s Blue Angels aerobatics team.
Even so, it was a show of martial force that has been absent from the US capital for decades, and Trump’s foes blasted it ahead of time as a show of militarism.
“What, I wonder, will Donald Trump say this evening when he speaks to the nation at an event designed more to stroke his ego than celebrate American ideals?” leading Democratic White House contender Joe Biden said earlier Thursday.
Trump himself revelled in the strong crowd, having spent the past 30 months defending himself over the poor turnout for his January 2017 inauguration.
“A great crowd of tremendous Patriots this evening, all the way back to the Washington Monument!” he tweeted, along with a photograph of the audience.
Organizers claim the Orlando rally has sold out a 20,000-seat arena, with many more to gather outside, watching on big screens.
“Looks to be setting records,” Trump tweeted Monday.
After more than two drama-filled years at the White House, the fast-talking real estate salesman bets that a strong economy and his promise to fight for forgotten blue collar workers will persuade the country to give him a second term.
But more than 20 Democrats are lining up to take him on and there’s no question that a lengthy probe into Trump’s dealings with Russia and his divisive, bruising style have wounded the unconventional president.
A wide range of polls show Trump lagging far behind Democratic frontrunner Joe Biden, who is campaigning on a promise to return the country to what he portrays as the calmer, gentler days of Barack Obama, under whom he served as vice president.
And it’s not only Biden ahead.
Even Pete Buttigieg, the gay, small-city mayor emerging as one of the surprise stars of the Democratic field, narrowly pips Trump, according to a poll from Fox News released this weekend.
Polls so far in advance have limited value and in 2016 they famously failed to predict Trump’s defeat of Democrat Hillary Clinton.
But in a sign of frayed nerves, Trump is lashing out at what he calls “fake” polling, while multiple US media reports say that his campaign has fired several of its own pollsters.
 Back to basics 
Democrats are fired up, with the party’s most active wing veering left and a vocal minority pushing for Trump’s impeachment.
So if Trump is going to win, he’ll need everyone from his own fervent base on the right to turn out, setting the stage for a sharply polarized election.
The Orlando speech will see him aim directly at that demographic in a state likely to be crucial to either candidate in amassing the necessary electoral college votes for victory.
Expect Trump, the self-promoting hero of his ghost-written book “The Art of the Deal,” to claim the US economy is richer, the military stronger, and the country more respected than ever in its history.
And expect ultra-loyal, core Republican supporters in red “Make America Great Again” baseball caps to chant “USA!”
These are the voters who steered Trump to improbable victory in 2016 when he faced the polished and experienced Clinton.
By focusing on working-class white Americans and tapping into their grievances over globalization and the liberal elites, Trump successfully ate into the Democrats’ own base.
On Tuesday he will renew that pitch.
“You’ve always been loyal to this nation and finally you have a president who’s loyal to you,” he tells a roaring crowd in his latest official campaign video.
“The way he looks at it, it worked beautifully in 2016 when everyone else was wrong, so he’ll follow the same instincts and (believe he’ll) win again in 2020,” veteran University of Virginia political analyst Larry Sabato said.
“It may not be the right strategy, but it is Trump, and he’s incapable of reorienting himself.”
Amid rising tensions in recent days after Iran shot down an American drone, President Donald Trump early Friday appeared to preview the tougher stance on Twitter, saying “Sanctions are biting & more added last night.”
The country has faced a growing series of US economic sanctions over the past year, as Treasury has blacklisted numerous firms and officials to choke off their access to funds following Trump’s decision to abandon the 2015 nuclear deal negotiated by his predecessor.
In a speech in Florida, Mnuchin called out “Iran’s willful failure to address its systemic money laundering and terrorist financing deficiencies.” 
He said an international task force will set a new deadline for the country to comply or face additional sanctions.
The 38-nation Financial Action Task Force (FATF) had suspended measures against Iran but in February warned that it would be subject to increased scrutiny if it failed to implement promised reforms by this month to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing.
Mnuchin also said the FATF would call for suspended sanctions to be reimposed “if Iran does not make further progress,” and would require “increased supervisory examination for branches and subsidiaries of financial institutions based in Iran.
A Trump administration official told AFP in an email the task force would on Friday afternoon announce the new oversight requirements and deadline as well as the “additional counter-measures” Iran could face if it fails to comply by the deadline.






US President Donald Trump steps off Air Force One upon arrival at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland on November 20, 2019. – Trump returned to Washington after visiting an Apple manufacturing facility in Austin. (Photo by MANDEL NGAN / AFP)
“He is a very special person as far as this country is concerned,” Trump said of Cook as they stood side-by-side, adding that he’s done a “great job.”
The visit gave Trump a chance to hail American manufacturing and step back, at least temporarily, from his tirade against big technology firms, including Apple, which he criticizes for manufacturing its products abroad.
Trump praised what he said was an “incredible product that is made right here.”
“When you build in the United States you don’t have to worry about tariffs,” he said, referring to those waged by China.
Apple announced in September it would keep making its Mac Pro computer in the United States, after obtaining tariff exemptions for some components in the high-end computers.
The developments show an unusual Trump-Cook relationship in sharp contrast with the president’s attacks on other tech giants.”On the face of it, it’s an unlikely relationship,” said Roger Kay, analyst at Endpoint Technologies Associates who follows the sector.
Cook, who supported Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016, has been able to sidestep much of Trump’s anger by being “very diplomatic,” Kay said.”He’s not saying ‘I love Trump,’ but he’s not saying ‘I hate Trump,'” said Kay.”He hasn’t made any disparaging public comments. By not ruffling Trump’s feathers he’s gotten quite a lot out of it.”
Cook and Trump remain far apart on a number of issues including trade and immigration, with Apple opposing the White House plan to end protection for so-called “dreamers” who came to the US as children.
While Apple has acknowledged it has paid some tariffs imposed by Trump on goods imported from China, the iPhone maker has so far avoided a major impact from the trade friction.
Sidestepping Trump tirades 
Trump, who has called Google and social media firms “biased” and been especially critical of Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos — accusing him of using his personal investment in The Washington Post for politics — has had mostly praise for the Apple CEO.
“Other companies hire very expensive consultants,” Trump said in August. “But the only one who calls me is Tim Cook. He calls me whenever there’s a problem.”
Trump, who once referred to the CEO as “Tim Apple,” appears to be forging a friendly relationship with Cook even when he offers criticism.
In one tweet, he seemed to fret over the design of the latest iPhones which no longer have a home button.
“To Tim: The Button on the IPhone was FAR better than the Swipe!” Trump wrote.
According to The Wall Street Journal, Cook has quietly cultivated his relationship with Trump through the president’s daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner, both of whom advise the president.
Trump appears to have softened some of his positions on tariffs after hearing Cook’s argument that punishing Apple would help foreign rivals such as Samsung.
“Tim Cook has gone out of his way it seems to develop a relationship with President Trump because he was concerned I’m sure of the potential impact on the business” from Trump’s policies, said Bob O’Donnell of Technalysis Research.
Because most of Apple products are manufactured in China, “there was a potentially large impact on profitability,” O’Donnell said.”Tim Cook is trying to be pragmatic and trying to address the issue by tackling it head on.”
Apple, which benefited from legislation signed by Trump that reduced taxes on repatriated profits from 35 to 15 percent, has responded to White House efforts by pledging to invest $350 billion in the US economy by 2023 through its own manufacturing and from suppliers.
O’Donnell said that Cook’s efforts to forge a relationship with Trump has some risks as well in Silicon Valley, where the president is unpopular.”I think some people who are Apple fans and don’t like Trump find it a little disconcerting,” O’Donnell said.
Kay said however that Apple employees and customers understand the needs of the business, and that Cook’s efforts might even ease some of the tensions between the White House and the tech industry.”Maybe Tim can create a rosier halo around Silicon Valley,” Kay said.”If he puts a human face on Silicon Valley, it could give Trump a slightly different view.”






- Gastro-diplomacy -
After flying in on Saturday at lunch-time, America's mercurial leader Donald Trump sat down for a crucial and impromptu lunch with his host, France's President Emmanuel Macron.
The two leaders sat for two hours face-to-face and without advisors on a patio overlooking the beach at the opulent Hotel du Palais, the venue for the G7 meetings.
Both of them said afterward it was their best ever meeting.
It appeared to have cleared the air and set the mood after a series of Trump tweets in recent weeks which criticised Macron and threatened tariffs on French wines. 
The only false note came afterward when Trump tweeted to thank @EmanuelMacrone -- mangling his spelling and inadvertently referencing a parody account of the French leader.

Read More: Iran president makes case for talks as G7 gambit slammed

Trump quickly corrected his post.
- Boris makes a splash -
The summit was Boris Johnson's first foray into global diplomacy as Britain's new prime minister, offering plenty of opportunities for his trademark theatrics and off-the-cuff quips.
He came out swinging Saturday, telling his EU partners to drop the Irish border "backstop" for Brexit as EU Council President Donald Tusk warned Johnson could go down in history as "Mr No Deal."
Johnson retorted that he wouldn't speculate on any "post-Brexit eschatology" -- unable to resist speaking about what comes after death with an ancient Greek flourish.
He later found a more congenial partner in Trump, who promised a "very big trade deal" with post-Brexit Britain at a chummy breakfast of veal sausages on Sunday.
French President's wife Brigitte Macron (L) and U.S. First Lady Melania Trump (C) walk back after a meeting with surfers at the Cote des Basques beach, in Biarritz, south-western France, on August 26, 2019, on the third and final day of the annual G7 summit. (Photo by Thomas SAMSON / POOL / AFP)
Johnson also found the time for a morning swim in the choppy Biarritz beach -- all to himself, thanks to the vast security perimeter set up for the summit.
French President's wife Brigitte Macron (L) and U.S. First Lady Melania Trump (C) walk back after a meeting with surfers at the Cote des Basques beach, in Biarritz, south-western France, on August 26, 2019, on the third and final day of the annual G7 summit. (Photo by Thomas SAMSON / POOL / AFP)
- Dropping in -
Macron had already shaken up the protocol at this year's G7 by ditching the usual joint post-summit declaration after the 2018 statement sparked a row between Trump and other G7 members.
But it was the unannounced visit by Tehran's top diplomat, Mohammad Javad Zarif -- the personal target of sanctions by Trump's government -- that caused the biggest stir.

Read More: Trump denies China trade war causing friction at G7

Macron hoped his invitation to Zarif would help thaw tensions with the US which ramped up after Trump abruptly pulled out of a landmark 2015 deal on Iran's nuclear programme last year.
Trump did not meet with Zarif, but later said he would be prepared to meet his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani in the next few weeks -- a timetable proposed by Macron.
- Telling portrait -
At a summit, whose stated priority was fighting inequalities, including between men and women, the "family photo" of G7 leaders and their spouses was a reminder of how much work remains to be done.
Underscoring his push to open up the format, Macron did away with the time-honoured G7 leaders' photo, instead of bringing other invited leaders from Egypt, South Africa, Chile, and India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
There was just one woman among the leaders -- Angela Merkel of Germany.
U.S. First Lady Melania Trump (C) looks on during a meeting with surfers at the Cote des Basques beach, in Biarritz, south-western France, on August 26, 2019, on the third and final day of the annual G7 summit. (Photo by Thomas SAMSON / AFP)
They were later joined by their spouses clad in chic cocktail dresses, high heels, and fine jewelry.
U.S. First Lady Melania Trump (C) looks on during a meeting with surfers at the Cote des Basques beach, in Biarritz, south-western France, on August 26, 2019, on the third and final day of the annual G7 summit. (Photo by Thomas SAMSON / AFP)
Merkel's husband, who usually ducks out of these events, was nowhere to be seen in contrast.
- Counter-summit -
Thousands of people began converging on southwest France in the days before the G7 for a mass "counter-summit", but to the relief of French authorities there was very little violence and few arrests.
Under the Alternatives G7 banner, the event drew anti-capitalist activists, environmentalists, and other anti-globalisation groups, as well as some of the "yellow vest" protesters who have been protesting against Emmanuel Macron's government starting last November.
As global leaders arrived Saturday, more than  9,000 protesters walked from the French border town of Hendaye, where many were camped out, to the Spanish town of Irun, the site of the conferences.
In the nearby town of Bayonne on Sunday, several hundred protesters carried upside-down official portraits of Macron seized from town halls across the country.






In bright sunshine outside the White House, Trump waved what he said was the text of an agreement Mexican and US officials signed Friday to avert the application of tariffs on their exports to the United States.
Photographs of the document revealed that Mexico appeared to pledge to enact or enforce certain domestic laws if Washington is not satisfied with the results of its first promised efforts — deploying 6,000 National Guardsmen to reinforce its southern border and expanding its policy of taking back asylum-seekers as the United States processes their claims.
If, after 45 days, the US government “determines at its discretion” that the results aren’t enough, the document says, “the Government of Mexico will take all necessary steps under domestic law to bring the agreement into force.”
The document gives the Mexican government another 45 days to achieve that.
It was not clear what specific measures the Mexican government would have to take.
Washington said last week it wanted Mexico to agree to a “safe third country” policy, in which migrants entering Mexican territory must apply for asylum there rather than in the US.
Trump waved the ostensible agreement in front of reporters amid questions about whether his administration really did reach a substantial agreement last week to stem the flow of hundreds of thousands of migrants who pass through Mexico to enter the United States.
The initial deal appeared to repeat previous undertakings the Mexicans have made.
But Trump has repeatedly suggested there is another secret part of the deal that would require more of Mexico.
“Mexico is doing a great job at the border, really helping us,” he said Tuesday.
“They have been working very hard. We’re doing very well together. Good relationship.”
 ‘Everything is right here’ 
Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard, who led Mexico’s negotiating team in Washington, repeated his denial that there is a secret annex to the deal.
“You’re not going to see it anywhere. Absolutely everything is right here. Everything. There’s nothing that’s not in this report,” he told a news conference in Mexico City, holding up the nine-page briefing he plans to deliver to the Mexican Senate.
That document says the countries discussed a “possible deal” to process asylum-seekers in whichever country they arrive in first.
If Washington deems the results of the initial measures insufficient after 45 days, Mexico City has another 45 days to implement the agreement.
Ebrard evaded reporters’ questions on what exactly that additional deal would look like.
“Mexico is not going to fail. Mexico is open to negotiations if we fail, but we’re not going to fail,” he said.
Pressed on what Mexico will do if Trump deems otherwise, he said, “I’m not going to reveal Mexico’s strategy… That wouldn’t be prudent.”
Mexico’s leftist government has insisted tighter borders cannot be the only solution, insisting on the need to protect migrants’ rights and fund major infrastructure and development projects in Central America.
But Mexico faces huge pressure to deliver immediate results at the US-Mexican border, where American officials detained 144,000 migrants in May, up 32 percent from April — including a record 89,000 in families.
Ebrard said Mexico would begin deploying its National Guard to the southern border on Wednesday.
US Democrats presented a forceful case for impeaching and removing President Donald Trump from office Tuesday in a report detailing “overwhelming evidence” of misconduct in office and obstruction.
Immediately dismissed by the White House as the product of a “one-sided sham process,” the House Intelligence Committee report accused Trump of subverting national security as he pressured Ukraine for dirt on a Democratic election rival.
Behind closed doors late Tuesday, the Democratic-led panel voted 13 to 9, along strict party lines as expected, to officially adopt and issue the report to the House Judiciary Committee, which is tasked with drafting articles of impeachment against the president.
The 300-page document, meant to serve as the basis for the charges against Trump, also mapped out in detail what it called an unparalleled effort of obstruction, including witness intimidation, to stifle the investigation into Trump’s Ukraine scheme.
“The president placed his personal political interests above the national interests of the United States, sought to undermine the integrity of the US presidential election process, and endangered US national security,” said the final report on the Intelligence Committee’s investigation.
“President Trump and his senior officials may see nothing wrong with using the power of the office of the president to pressure a foreign country to help the president’s reelection campaign,” it said.
“However, the Founding Fathers prescribed a remedy for a chief executive who places his personal interests above those of the country: impeachment.”
‘The president’s dirty work’
The report, the product of a rapid-fire probe sparked by a whistleblower’s complaint in August, mapped out a months-long scheme by Trump, his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani and senior diplomats to pressure Ukraine’s president into investigating Joe Biden, the current favorite to win the Democratic 2020 White House nomination.
Trump also pressured President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate a “conspiracy theory” that it was Ukraine, and not Russia, that interfered in the 2016 US election, to benefit the Democrats.
In both cases, the report said, Trump conditioned nearly $400 million in US military aid and a high-profile summit with Zelensky on Kiev opening the investigations.
Democrat Adam Schiff, the head of the House Intelligence Committee, said the White House demands left Ukraine, which is under constant threat from Russia-backed rebels, vulnerable as Trump sought help for his 2020 reelection.
“This report chronicles a scheme by the president of the United States to coerce an ally, Ukraine, that is at war with an adversary, Russia, into doing the president’s dirty work,” he told reporters.
‘Ramblings of a basement blogger’ 
Secondly, the report said, Trump actively sought to obstruct the congressional probe, refusing to provide documents to investigators, preventing witnesses from appearing, and threatening some of those who did appear.
“Donald Trump is the first president in the history of the United States to seek to completely obstruct an impeachment inquiry undertaken by the House of Representatives,” it said.
“President Trump’s ongoing effort to thwart Congress’ impeachment power risks doing grave harm to the institution of Congress.”
In London for a NATO summit, Trump again accused the Democrats of playing a political game.
“The impeachment is a hoax. It’s turned out to be a hoax. It’s done for purely political gain,” he said.
His spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham doubled down in dismissing both the report and Schiff’s investigation.
“At the end of a one-sided sham process, Chairman Schiff and the Democrats utterly failed to produce any evidence of wrongdoing by President Trump,” she said in a statement.
The report “reads like the ramblings of a basement blogger straining to prove something when there is evidence of nothing.”
Impeachment before Christmas?
The report is expected to form the basis for the Judiciary Committee to draw up formal charges, or articles of impeachment, in the coming weeks.
If, as expected, the articles are passed by the Democratic-led House, the case will go to the Republican-controlled Senate for trial in January.
The Judiciary panel, which begins meeting Wednesday, has set no formal timeframe.
But Democrats aim to hold a full House impeachment vote before the body goes on break for Christmas, December 25.
Schiff said that while the Judiciary Committee meets, his panel could continue investigating other angles of the Ukraine scheme, including whether Trump actually began much earlier to pressure Zelensky’s predecessor Petro Poroshenko for the investigations, and whether some members of Congress were involved.
But he stressed the need to move quickly, accusing Trump of seeking election help not only from Ukraine but Russia and China.
“There is I think grave risk to the country with waiting until we have every last fact when we already know enough about the president’s misconduct to make a responsible judgement,” Schiff said.






Trump said the sanctions were the toughest-ever against another country, but indicated he did not plan a military strike, calling restraint a sign of strength.
The Treasury Department renewed action against Iran’s central bank after US officials said Tehran carried out weekend attacks on rival Saudi Arabia’s oil infrastructure, which triggered a spike in global crude prices.
Those attacks, combined with an Iranian attack on an American spy drone in June, represented a “dramatic escalation of Iranian aggression,” Secretary of Defense Mark Esper said.
The Pentagon chief announced that the United States would send military reinforcements to the Gulf region at the request of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.
“In response to the kingdom’s request, the president has approved the deployment of US forces, which will be defensive in nature, and primarily focused on air and missile defense,” Esper said.
However Joint Chiefs of Staff Joe Dunford categorized the deployment as “moderate,” with the number of troops not expected to reach the thousands.
Earlier in the day Trump attacked both critics who thought the mogul-turned-president would trigger war and hawks seeking a military response.
“The easiest thing I could do (is) knock out 15 different major things in Iran,” Trump said.
“But I think the strong-person approach and the thing that does show strength would be showing a little bit of restraint,” he said.
Trump in June authorized a military strike after Iran shot down the US spy drone, only to call it off at the last moment.
Extensive damage
Saudi Arabia on Friday revealed extensive damage from the strikes on state giant Aramco’s facilities in Khurais and the world’s largest oil processing facility at Abqaiq.
The attacks, which knocked out half of Saudi Arabia’s oil production, have been claimed by Yemen’s Iran-backed Huthi rebels, but Washington has pointed its finger at Tehran, condemning the strikes as an “act of war.”
Abqaiq was struck 18 times while nearby Khurais was hit four times in a raid that triggered multiple explosions and towering flames that took hours to extinguish, Aramco officials said.
Aramco flew dozens of international journalists to the two sites to show it was speeding up repairs, giving rare access to the nerve center of the world’s largest oil producer as it seeks to shore up investor confidence ahead of a planned initial public offering (IPO).
Meanwhile, Yemen’s Huthi rebels, who have repeatedly targeted key Saudi infrastructure in recent months in cross-border attacks, unexpectedly announced late Friday that they planned to halt all strikes on the country.
The move, they said, was part of a peace initiative to end their country’s devastating conflict which has killed tens of thousands of people — most of them civilians — and driven millions more to the brink of famine.
Iran denies US and Saudi accusations that it arms the Huthis.
New ground for sanctions 
The United States already maintains sweeping sanctions on Iran including on its central bank, with anyone who deals with it subject to prosecution, due to Tehran’s alleged nuclear program.
But the new sanctions Friday were imposed for the additional reason of “terrorism,” Treasury said, adding that Iran’s central bank had provided “billions of dollars” to two groups blacklisted by the United States.
“Treasury’s action targets a crucial funding mechanism that the Iranian regime uses to support its terrorist network, including the Qods Force, Hezbollah and other militants that spread terror and destabilize the region,” US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.
The Qods Force conducts international operations for Iran’s elite Revolutionary Guards, while Hezbollah, the Shiite militant group and political party in Lebanon, is among Iran’s closest regional partners.
Iran responded that the move showed that the United States was running out of options.
The United States also imposed sanctions on Iran’s sovereign wealth fund, whose board of trustees includes President Hassan Rouhani, as well as Etemad Tejarate Pars, a company that the Treasury Department said had sent money internationally on behalf of Iran’s defense ministry.
Trump recently said that he hopes for talks with Rouhani, who responded that Trump must first ease sanctions.
Last year Trump pulled out of a nuclear accord with Iran negotiated under former president Barack Obama, sending tensions soaring as he tried to stop all countries from buying Iran’s oil.






"It is only the naivete of Jay Powell and the Federal Reserve that doesn't allow us to do what other countries are already doing. A once in a lifetime opportunity that we are missing because of 'Boneheads.'"
As it becomes increasingly apparent that the US economy has slowed in 2019, Trump has publicly berated Fed chair Jerome Powell and the central bank for failing to loosen monetary policy fast enough.
Investors overwhelmingly expect the Fed to deliver a 25-basis-point cut to interest rates as the global economy slows and the US-China trade war drags into its second year.
The Fed cut the benchmark interest rate in July for the first time in more than a decade, partly as insurance against the impact of trade uncertainties on the economy.
Powell has vowed to act to ensure that American economic expansion continues but warned the central bank has no "rulebook" for dealing with the US-China trade war.
"We have the great currency, power, and balance sheet," Trump said in announcing that the "Federal Reserve should get our interest rates down to ZERO, or less."
While the Fed is not expecting a recession, trade frictions -- as well as slower global growth and persistently low inflation -- are among the "significant risks" that policymakers are watching, the Fed chair said during a conversation at the University of Zurich on Friday.
The US economic landscape has shifted this year, as business investment has weakened noticeably, manufacturing has fallen into decline and job creation has slowed.
The Fed chair noted, however, that unemployment had remained near historic lows for about 18 months while wages were rising, fueling consumer spending.
Powell, whom Trump promoted to Fed chairman last year, has come under repeated attacks from the president but has reiterated that he and his Fed colleagues ignore such comments when they set monetary policy.
[FILE] US President Donald Trump waves to supporters as he arrives for a campaign rally in Rio Rancho, New Mexico. (Photo by Nicholas Kamm / AFP)
So, what if Trump undermines all odds to win a second term? For many European states, from the United Kingdom to Switzerland, and from Greece to France, such a possibility spells a lot for the economy and for national politics. The emergence of Trump has turned out to be a wildcard that swings international politics in multiple directions. On the one hand, his arrival on the scene has provided a nationalist stamp of legitimacy for many right-wing parties and figure—from Victor Orban in Hungary to Marie Le Pen in France. “Making America Great Again” has become a rallying cry for nationalist parties all across Europe. On the other hand, Trump has also served a fundamental notice against the age-long America-Europe alliance, formed at the end of the Second World War, against the emergence of a single power like Nazi Germany and its imperialist designs against the whole world. This vision of a new world order was grounded on the idea of an expanded NATO since 1999. All this has been thrown asunder when Donald Trump became the 45th president of the United States. 
In the aftermath of a deteriorating world order, we cannot but ask what Trump second term will portend for the African continent. This question is not out of place. The foreign policy of one state has always had deep implications for other states. The United States is a global political power whose foreign policy dictates reverberate across the globe, and have unquantifiable influence on Africa’s existence. For instance, when Barack Obama became the president, Africanists wonder what impact a black president, with a filial connection to Kenya, would have on the diplomatic relationship between the United States and Africa. This question is much more significant in the face of the significant global security and economic issues that a Trump second term would unleash on the world, and on Africa. 
The global world order which world leaders have taken effort and time to fashion since the end of the second World War seems to be gradually going up in flames. Two fundamental incidences foreground this conclusion. First, the growing but steady visibility of China in global geopolitics has become a major feature of today’s world order. And this, second, has been simultaneous with the receding visibility, and even docility, of Europe in international affairs.   Thus, with the emergence of Donald Trump, several global issues are thrown into disequilibrium. Trump has consistently taken decisions that have questioned the need for a transatlantic alliance between North America and Europe. Despite being a party to the Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, Trump has continued to undermine the capability of NATO to face global military threats. Beyond this, Trump has also consistently undermined Europe’s confidence as a global power by the intrusive politics he had played against individual European states. He has, for instance, attempted undermining the Brexit negotiations by playing it out against a possible future US-UK relationship. Europe’s military capacity as well as its openness to refugees has also come under Trump’s right-wing attack. Unfortunately, his Trump’s relationship with Vladimir Putin has also left a lot of geopolitical dynamics hanging. And Trump queries the fact around the dangers of climate change!
In the final analysis, there now seems to have been lost, the united front that could be very significant in the face of the eroding balance of power in Asia, instigated by Putin’s power play; the unraveling power tussle in the Middle East around Iran’s hegemonic ambition; and most frightening of all, there is an uncoordinated response to the spreading threat of global terrorism, with Al-Shabaab, Boko Haram, and ISIS gradually spreading their tentacles across the world. Donald Trump’s possible second term portends the hardening of a nationalist and isolationist politics that shut America and Europe into themselves, and critically undermine the multilateralism that defines the old world order which Trump has assiduously been trying to undermine. Multilateralism as a global network builds an alliance, under the auspice of the United Nations that becomes the hub of strategic actions against global threats and challenges like terrorism and climate change. For instance, it does not seem obvious yet that Donald Trump and the damaged multilateral global dynamics have yet understood the global implications of the rise of China as a global economic power. Presently, the US is engaged in a trade war rather than engaging in a fruitful dialogue with Beijing. A downward spiral in the US-China bilateral relations will not only hurt the two states, but it has the capacity to further damage the comatose world order, while the consequences—intended or otherwise—will boomerang against “innocent bystanders” across the world. 
This is where Africa comes into the picture. What does what we can call the Trump Factor imply for the security and economic prospects of the continent? A response to this question must necessarily be multidimensional in its attempt at following through on the multiple implications of a Trump second term in the White House. First, the world has to contend with the possibility of a rising prominence of racism as a foreign policy dynamic. As his first term keep winding down, Trump’s profile as a racist president whose right-wing nationalist rhetoric is grounded on a racist ideology of hatred of non-Americans. Trump’s populist triumph in the 2016 election has been interpreted as a racist reaction to the election of Barack Obama. This populist reactions, with variants in Europe, has been analyzed by sociologists like Seymour Lipset, as an authoritarian reaction that taps into the innermost fear of the underbelly of the society—the vulnerable, uneducated, homeless, destitute, poor and the disgruntled. Unfortunately, populism also raises the fundamental issue of inequality which Thomas Piketty has explained clearly. With real income of the people stagnating or declining against economic growth that redirect the gains to the top 10% of the population, the social order is undermined with the masses of those affected seeking the intervention of authoritarian leaders to protect them from what are perceived as dangerous outsiders—refugees, asylum seekers, racial or ethnic minorities, and immigrants of all kinds—seen as threatening jobs and benefits. 
(Being remarks by Prof. Olaopa, executive vice-chairman, Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy – ISGPP, at the Intellectual Fiesta on ‘Emerging Development in Europe and North America: Implications for Africa’ Organised by the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) in Abeokuta, recently.
(Being Remarks by Prof. Olaopa, executive vice-chairman, Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy – ISGPP, at the Intellectual Fiesta on ‘Emerging Development in Europe and North America: Implications for Africa’ Organised by the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) in Abeokuta, recently.In his February 2019 State of the Union address, Trump made a very critical observation that has been a fact in global statistics for a while now: The United State is the leading producer of oil and gas in the world, as well as being a net exporter of energy. The US energy export now has the capacity to consolidate her global competitive edge vis-à-vis other states, especially those in Africa. Thus, Saudi Arabia and other oil-rich Middle Eastern countries have all commenced the urgent task of modifying their foreign and trade policies with the awareness of the dwindling influence of OPEC in the global crude oil production. It takes little reflection to see what policy direction Nigeria needs to take not only as the largest producer of crude oil in Africa, but also as the most strategic state in Africa. 
This is a policy direction that has become obvious for a long time, especially with the dwindling fortune of Nigeria’s crude oil on the global market. When the United States ceased to be Nigeria’s number one importer of oil, the handwriting was already on the wall. It seems inevitable that the world will soon witness a global oil glut founded on America’s growing exportation of oil and the world’s receding demand for it. The pressure on OPEC for lower prices will eventually translate into a weaker revenue streams for Nigeria. On the other hand, it is almost certain that with the ongoing trade war between the US and China, and with Nigeria as beneficiary of China infrastructure loans and other Chinese investments, Chinese exporters will sure exploit Nigeria’s domestic economy to dump their cheap products to consolidate what it has lost in the US market.
The way forward is for Nigeria to become strategic in her foreign and international trade policy by actively pursuing an economic diversification policy that will redirect its attention away from oil to other significant national products. This will have to go hand in hand with a focus on the stimulation of the agricultural and manufacturing sectors in ways that will facilitate Nigeria’s growing visibility in trade, especially with the US. By a stroke of luck, the increased tariff of Chinese products entering the United States leaves the way open for Nigeria, under the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) of the United States, to consolidate its exports into the US market. This simply demands a concerted effort that will rethink Nigeria’s mono-economy as a necessary part of rethinking Nigeria’s foreign policy. A pragmatic reassessment would consider the agricultural and solid mineral sectors, for instance, as two of the most formidable and potential areas by which Nigeria can regain the initiative in its productive base and in foreign relations. 
We all seem to know this already. What is lacking is the political will to see it through. However, while we wait and ponder our options, Donald Trump might win a second term in the White House, and the international world order founded on multilateralism might just get the last nail hammered into its coffin. We do not want to be left floundering while the wise states who have anticipated these incidences keep moving forward unscathed.
(Being Remarks by Prof. Olaopa, executive vice-chairman, Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy – ISGPP, at the Intellectual Fiesta on ‘Emerging Development in Europe and North America: Implications for Africa’ Organised by the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) in Abeokuta, recently.
The decision — temporarily in effect while lower court proceedings play out — is a victory for Trump’s restrictive immigration policies, which he has made a central pillar of his presidency but which have been repeatedly challenged in court.
The top court stayed a decision by a lower court that had blocked the restrictions, which declare ineligible for asylum any migrants who enter the United States from the southern border and who have not asked for asylum protection in any of the countries they crossed to get to there.
Justice Sonia Sotomayor, dissenting from the decision, wrote that: “Once again the Executive Branch has issued a rule that seeks to upend longstanding practices regarding refugees who seek shelter from persecution.”
“In effect, the rule forbids almost all Central Americans… to apply for asylum in the United States if they enter or seek to enter through the southern border, unless they were first denied asylum in Mexico or another third country,” she wrote.
Trump took to Twitter to hail the move, saying: “BIG United States Supreme Court WIN for the Border on Asylum!”
The decision “greatly helps build on the progress we’ve made addressing the crisis at our southern border and will ultimately make American communities safer,” White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley said in a statement.
“This is just a temporary step, and we’re hopeful we’ll prevail at the end of the day,” said Lee Gelernt, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union, one of the groups challenging the asylum restrictions.
Lives ‘at stake’
“The lives of thousands of families are at stake,” Gelernt said in a statement.
The asylum restrictions target the flow of migrants from Central America and other countries who have tried to cross into the United States from Mexico and request asylum.
These requests — often made by families saying they have fled endemic violence and poverty in their countries — allow the applicants to remain in the United States and to move around freely while their cases are adjudicated, which can take two years.
The policy is among a host of measures Trump has taken in a bid to stem the flow of migrants, including the deployment of troops at the southern border.
The Pentagon said Tuesday that it will keep up to 5,500 military members at the border for the coming year to help combat illegal immigration.
It has also announced that it would divert $3.6 billion in funds for construction of an anti-migrant wall on the frontier, which Trump repeatedly promised that Mexico would pay for.
The diversion of the Pentagon funds to border wall construction was justified under a controversial emergency declaration made by Trump after Congress repeatedly denied the president money for the project.
Trump has also pressured Mexico to take action, threatening in May to impose tariffs on all of the country’s goods, gradually rising as high as 25 percent, if it did not do more to stop the flow of migrants.
Mexico said last week that it has slashed undocumented migration to the United States by 56 percent since May, and the steps it has taken have drawn praise from Washington.






Kushner was expected to meet Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, but no details were released of his schedule. 
A US embassy spokeswoman confirmed he had arrived following earlier stops in Morocco and Jordan.
Kushner, accompanied by Trump envoy Jason Greenblatt and Brian Hook, the US special representative for Iran, is a key architect of the peace plan the White House is expected to unveil.
But the plan, previously delayed for an Israeli general election on April 9, could face further postponements due to Israeli politics.
Israel is set to hold another general election in September after Netanyahu failed to form a coalition government, and the plan is widely seen as too sensitive an issue to introduce during a political campaign.
The Palestinian leadership has also already rejected the plan, saying that Trump’s moves have shown him to be blatantly biased in favour of Israel.
Those moves include declaring the disputed city of Jerusalem Israel’s capital and cutting hundreds of millions of dollars in Palestinian aid.
Jordan’s King Abdullah II insisted during Kushner’s visit Wednesday on the “need to intensify efforts to achieve a comprehensive and lasting peace based on the two-state solution, that would guarantee the establishment of an independent Palestinian state with east Jerusalem as its capital.”
The United States is expected to roll out the economic aspects of the peace plan at a conference in Bahrain on June 25-26, but Palestinian leaders say they will not attend.
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi looks on during a media briefing after meeting with US President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, DC on October 16, 2019. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski / AFP)
Trump tweeted a picture of the encounter Wednesday showing a standing Pelosi pointing at the president while he and everyone else in the room was seated, with the caption “Nervous Nancy’s unhinged meltdown!”
However, far from being upset at the picture, Pelosi posted it as her Twitter banner, and her supporters said it showed her literally standing up to Trump.
Nervous Nancy's unhinged meltdown! pic.twitter.com/RDeUI7sfe7
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 16, 2019

“Can a woman beat Donald Trump? Yes. Speaker Pelosi does it every day,” Democratic Senator Amy Klobuchar said as she retweeted the picture.
“Thanks for the new cover photo @realDonaldTrump!,” tweeted Pelosi’s deputy chief of staff Drew Hammill.
Others pointed out that several members of Trump’s cabinet looked as if they would rather be somewhere else.
“The men on your right reflect the embarrassment we all feel,” tweeted actress Mia Farrow.
Pelosi has previously gone viral with her apparent trolling of Trump, with her slow clapping of his last State of the Union speech becoming an instant meme.
After leaving the White House meeting, she told the press she prayed for the president and his family “all the time.”
“Now we have to pray for his health because this was a very serious meltdown on the part of the president,” she said.
Hours later, Trump suggested Pelosi had mental problems of her own.
Nancy Pelosi needs help fast! There is either something wrong with her “upstairs,” or she just plain doesn’t like our great Country. She had a total meltdown in the White House today. It was very sad to watch. Pray for her, she is a very sick person!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 17, 2019

“Nancy Pelosi needs help fast! There is either something wrong with her ‘upstairs,’ or she just plain doesn’t like our great Country. She had a total meltdown in the White House today. It was very sad to watch. Pray for her, she is a very sick person!,” Trump tweeted.
One of the Democrats who attended the meeting, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, said Trump launched into a “nasty diatribe” against them, while Pelosi said the president experienced a “meltdown.” 
Trump’s spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham rejected the Democratic version of events, saying the president had been “measured and decisive,” and that Pelosi walking out was “baffling but not surprising.”
The meeting was the first face-to-face encounter between Trump and Pelosi since her explosive September 24 statement announcing a formal impeachment inquiry.
History has it that George I, King of Great Britain and Ireland from 1714-1727, was not fluent in the English Language. He relied on interpreters. Not least because of this impediment, he appointed Robert Walpole as “Leader of Commons” to act on his behalf. Walpole represented the King in the Commons, a privilege which invariably made him the historically-recognised first Prime Minister of Great Britain.
The history of the Monarch appointing the British Prime Minister continued on Wednesday, 24 July, when Theresa May, erstwhile Prime Minister, arrived Buckingham Palace to tender her resignation to Queen Elizabeth II. Soon after, Boris Johnson arrived at the palace to seal his appointment as the new PM.
Unlike it is with the presidential system of government we currently practise in Nigeria, the British Prime Minister is not elected nationally. He or she is, first and foremost, a Member of Parliament, a status shared with every representative of the 650 constituencies of the nation. However, the PM owes the position to being the leader of the party or coalition of parties with a majority of seats in the legislature. It is because of this that the PM is referred to as “first among equals”.
Be that as it may, Theresa May had been PM since 2016. Her not-too-distinguished leadership was consumed by her inability to resolve the impasse over Brexit. Recall that a slim majority of British voters had voted to exit the European Union in a 2016 referendum and the task of accomplishing this Herculean task fell on this otherwise hardworking woman. She voted to remain in Europe, albeit reluctantly, but had to confront a parliament that was severely divided over a most sensitive issue.
Every proposal Theresa May made as her terms of disengagement from Europe met with agonising failure. Her party and those who had voted to exit the EU became impatient with her. The final straw that broke her political neck came with the disastrous performance of her party in the recent EU election, finishing a distant 5th behind key rivals. A newly-formed Brexit Party led by the greatest apostle of the campaign to quit Europe, Nigel Farage, had ravaged the political strongholds of the Conservative Party.
Being the decent politician she was, committed to the established ethos of British politics, Mrs May promptly outlined her exit route from her privileged position as leader of her political party, culminating in the surrender of the prestigious prime ministerial position. Following a series of campaigns and interviews, a new leader of the Conservative Party emerged in the person of Boris Johnson, hitherto Foreign Secretary and Mayor of London. Johnson had defeated his final opponent, Jeremy Haunt, in a sequence of intra-party elections in which quite a few had bitten the political dust. He defeated Haunt by 66 percent of the votes cast by 160,000 members of the Conservative Party.
Boris Johnson had hinged his campaign on delivering Brexit, unifying a nation severely divided over Europe, and defeating Jeremy Corbyn and the Labour Party he led in future elections. Deal or no deal, he vowed to take Britain out of the EU by 31 October. The majority in his Cabinet will be Brexiteers, a cabinet he promised will be ethnically-diverse and women well-represented. The first 100 days of his leadership will be devoted to delivering Brexit, domestic legislation can wait.
Quite a few do not believe the new Prime Minister will be a success story. They think his leadership will be disastrous, not least because they believe he cannot be trusted.  Someone actually said Boris should be the last person to be Prime Minister of Britain. Three cabinet ministers had resigned their positions to Theresa May once it became clear Mr. Johnson would be PM.
The US President, Donald Trump, believes Boris Johnson would be great. He has already christened him, “Boris Trump of Britain”. Those who had followed the career of Boris Johnson knew it was a matter of time he would be Prime Minister. The 55 years old Boris read Classics at Balliol College, University of Oxford, and was elected President of the Oxford Union in 1986. The Oxford Union is a breeding ground for future politicians of note, a debating forum for would-be great orators that Boris Johnson is.
Charismatic Boris Johnson is enthusiastically believed by supporters of the Conservative Party to be the one to win elections and reclaim lost glory. He might not even get a chance to organise an election if he were to fail to deliver Brexit as enthusiastically anticipated by the impatient adherents of this highly-controversial mission. His journey back to Buckingham Palace, to tender his resignation, could be the quickest ever made by any departing Prime Minister of Great Britain in recent history.






“The US government over the last two years, violating all the international structures and rules and using its economic, financial and military resources, has taken an aggressive approach and presents a serious risk to stability in the region and the world,” Rouhani said, in translated comments.
He was speaking at a meeting in Bishkek of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation — a Eurasian security alliance that includes China, India and Russia.
Rouhani criticised the US for withdrawing from the 2015 nuclear deal with Iran, saying Washington is forcing other parties and countries to breach a UN Security Council resolution on normalising trade contacts with Tehran.
He called on the other participants in the deal to “carry out their obligations as soon as possible” so  Tehran can develop its economic interests under the deal. 
Rouhani did not refer to the situation in the Gulf where the US has accused Iran of being behind attacks on two tankers.
Iran on Friday dismissed the US charges as “baseless”.
Christians in the north, under the umbrella of Voice of Northern Christian Movement in Nigeria (VNCMN) have petitioned the United States President, Donald Trump, over alleged ethno-religious cleansing in southern Kaduna and other parts of the country. But a senior government official in Kaduna State debunked the allegations, describing them as products of politics. 
The Christians specifically alleged that since the emergence of Nasiru Ahmed El-Rufai as the governor of the state, peace has evaded the erstwhile peaceful Kajuru chiefdom in Adaraland.
In an official protest letter to Trump through the United States Embassy in Nigeria, the Executive Director of VNCMN, Rev. Kallamu Musa Ali Dikwa, said that under President Muhammadu Buhari, peace has continued to elude the Adaraland and other parts of the country.
The Christians said: “Through divisive and poisonous utterances and policies, the people in Adara chiefdom have never been more divided along religious lines.
“In Kaduna State, he (El-Rufai) unilaterally proposed to create a purely Islamic emirate for the handful of Muslims in Kajuru town over large swathes of ancestral Adaraland. This, coupled with vindictive arrests and detention of any outspoken Adara citizen, has shattered any existing cordial relationship among the people in the area.
“In the light of the foregoing, the Chief of Adara, Dr. Maiwada Raphael Galadima, was invited for a meeting with El-Rufai and while returning from the meeting with the governor, he was ambushed and abducted together with his police guard, wife and daughter. The wife and daughter were eventually released but the police guard and the chief were murdered. Since then, the Adara chiefdom and the entire Kajuru Local Government Area have been faced with constant threats, attacks, killings and mayhem.”
According to the group, El-Rufai, in public, told the entire world that he had given millions of naira to the Fulani terrorists to stop attacking the people of southern Kaduna.
“When he saw that the Fulani terrorists could not complete the work of cleansing the ethno-religious Southern Kaduna, Governor El-Rufai took over from them, using the power of government on the people to take over Southern Kaduna communities for Islam and Fulani ethnic groups, abusing the power of his office.”
The VNCMN wondered why the unpleasant situation is being foisted only on Southern Kaduna which is predominately inhabited by Christians. “Why is it that there is no government gazette on District and Villages Restructuring (Amendment) Order 2018 in respect of the northern part of Kaduna but only southern Kaduna? Gazette is supposed to be made in respect of emirates and chiefdoms at the same time as published by the Kaduna State Government of Nigeria in No. 21 vol. 52 under the Kaduna State Legal Notice No.1 on the 16th August, 2018 which was enacted without due process.
“In line with the policy thrust of the present administration to reduce the cost of governance, the state executive council resolved to restructure the districts and villages with the making of the Districts and Villages (Restructuring) Order 2017. One now wonders why this restructuring was targeted at only Southern Kaduna who had hitherto lived in peace.
“From the foregoing, it is clear that the focus of Governor El-Rufai and the Federal Government is pointing to the Islamic agenda, with a view to taking over all Christian settlements, villages, towns, districts, local governments and the entire state to the detriment of the Christians.”
The group then called on President Trump and the international community for a lasting solution to the act of lawlessness and intimidation of the Christian community in Nigeria.The petition which was made available to journalists in Kaduna, further read: “The government has taken the Christians’ tolerance and kindness for granted, thus the incessant hostility and ceaseless threats, attacks, kidnappings and mayhem leading to destruction of lives and property.
“The government has backed the Fulani herdsmen’s perpetuation of evil under the guise of cattle rearing as a profession by enacting policies such as cattle ranch business and grazing reserves to the detriment of the Christian communities.
“No wonder that the news going round is that they are to disburse over N100 billion to Boko Haram and Fulani herdsmen ethnic militia as part of amnesty programme. All these are smokescreen policies to equip them with lethal weapons to harm the Christians.”
The VNCMN, which lamented that all the security organisations in the country had failed to bring the menace to an end, said no single terrorist organisation should be more powerful or stronger than the whole armory of a nation.But a Kaduna State government official last night denied the allegations.“Kajuru LG is where Kaduna lost its innocence. It is the scene of the first ethno-religious crisis in the state which occurred in Kasuwan Magani town in 1980, during the government of Alhaji Balarabe Musa,” 
“Security challenges should not be politicised, ethnicised or given religious colorations. Kidnappings, robberies and other forms of banditry are challenges in several parts of the country,” the source further said. “The Kaduna State Government is doing its best to contain the situation and secure communities. The state government worked with the FG to establish permanent army and police formations in southern Kaduna, a demand that had been pending for 30 years.
“People should be wary of liars masquerading as priests. The late Agom Adara was not coming from a meeting with the Governor of Kaduna State when he was kidnapped. He and his wife were returning from a send-forth prayer for his niece who was about to be married.”
The National President of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Rev. Dr. Felix Omobude in his reaction said: “I’m just hearing about the Voice of Northern Christian Movement in Nigeria (VNCMN). When you look at what is on ground and the apparent helplessness of government to forestall the situation they have right to their opinion. Anyone that is being killed has the right to cry. All this while, the killings have been on and the government has not been able to curtail them.”
Efforts to reach the secretary of the Jama’atu Nasir Islam (JNI) Dr. Abubakar Khalid for comments on the petition by the Christians in the North to President Trump were futile. But Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) through its director and founder, Prof. Ishaq Akintola noted: “We are not surprised at this kind of development. Let them go ahead if Trump owns Nigeria, let them go ahead and report to the rest of Christians in the world. They are simply making things worse. Trump cannot dictate to Nigeria. I think they have shown that they lack patriotism, it is myopic of them and highly parochial.’’
The elections for the European Parliament on May 26 in France will see Macron’s centrist party face a tough challenge from Marine Le Pen’s far-right National Rally (RN), formerly known as the National Front.
Should Macron’s La Republique En Marche (LREM) party fall behind the RN in the polls, it would be a major blow for the president who supporters see as Europe’s centrist saviour against the surge of the far right across the continent.
Bannon told the newspaper Le Parisien on Saturday he had chosen to come to France as its election was “by far” the most important of all the European Parliament polls in EU member states.
He described the election as a referendum on Macron and his vision for Europe, predicting an “earthquake” next Sunday.
The head of the LREM campaign, Stephane Sejourne, on Twitter accused Bannon of coming to Paris and staying at a luxury hotel with the aim of helping Le Pen’s party win.
“It is an attack on the sovereignty of the election… it makes you want to throw up,” he fumed.
Nathalie Loiseau, who heads the LREM list for the election, commented: “He (Bannon) does not even hide his desire to interfere in our polls.”
Responding to Bannon, French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe said a strong Europe was a condition of the country’s sovereignty.
“I see that bothers Mr Bannon and Mr Trump,” he said on Facebook Live. “What I cannot understand is some French people who, on one hand, claim to defend the people and the nation, but bring us people whose interest is only to weaken Europe.”
– ‘Anti-fake news unit’ –
The number two on the list for the polls for Macron’s LREM party, Pascal Canfin, told Cnews that the RN was the “Trojan horse” for Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin in a bid to destroy the EU.
Canfin said the LREM will also, in an unusual move, ask the French TV channels organising the final election debates this week to have an “anti-fake news” unit in place to prevent falsehoods being spread. 
Since his departure from the White House, Bannon has championed the cause of the European far right, having close contacts with Le Pen and Italian populist leader Matteo Salvini.
Salvini on Saturday gathered Europe’s disparate nationalists for a unifying rally in Milan ahead of the polls, but the gathering was overshadowed by the corruption scandal that brought down Austria’s far-right coalition.
– ‘No outside influence’ –
Meanwhile senior RN figure Nicolas Bay has denied any interference by Bannon in the French campaign.
“We have led this campaign in a perfectly independent way without any foreign or outside influence,” he said.
The election in France promises to be close, with the latest polls either showing the RN slightly ahead or neck-and-neck with the LREM.
“We should not minimise the consequences” of a victory by the RN in the elections, the head of Macron’s party Stanislas Guerini told Challenges magazine, saying it would weaken France in Europe.






Government spokesman Ali Rabiei said the launchpad had been vacant when last week’s explosion occurred, in Iran’s first admission that an accident occurred at the space centre in the north of the country.
“The explosion was in the launch pad and a satellite had not yet been transferred there,” Rabiei told state television.
“Fortunately, nobody was killed in this incident. It was a technical issue… and it’s now clear how this happened.”
Rabiei criticised Iran’s foes for trying to “convey that they are capable of infiltrating our organisations for espionage and sabotage”.
The spokesman also hit out at Trump over his tweet.
“We don’t know why the US president would… post a satellite photo, kind of treating the subject gleefully,” said Rabiei.
“Fortunately, our knowledge in this field is increasing by the day,” he said referring to Iran’s space programme.
The incident comes after months of tensions between Tehran and Washington.
Trump last year unilaterally withdrew from a landmark 2015 international deal that placed limits on Iran’s nuclear activities in exchange for the lifting of sanctions, and he reimposed crippling financial penalties.
“The United States of America was not involved in the catastrophic accident during final launch preparations for the Safir SLV Launch at Semnan Launch Site One in Iran,” Trump said in the tweet.
Publicly available satellite photos showed plumes of black smoke rising from the space centre on August 29.
“All they do is complain,” Trump told reporters gathered at the White House for a “Made in America” event. 
“These are people that hate our country,” he added. 
“If you’re not happy here, you can leave.”
Trump also accused the four Democrats, all of whom are women of color, of having “love” for US “enemies like Al-Qaeda.”
Trump spoke out a day after launching xenophobic attacks on the progressive congresswomen on Twitter, saying they should “go back” to the countries they came from.

Read More: Trump again attacks liberal US congresswomen

He did not identify the women by name in his initial attack although on Monday he made it clear he was referring to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who is of Puerto Rican origin, and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, who is of Somali origin.
The attacks also appeared to target Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, the first Palestinian-American woman elected to Congress, and Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts, who is African-American.
Ocasio-Cortez, Tlaib and Pressley were all born in the United States while Omar came to the United States from war-torn Somalia when she was a child.
“These are people that hate our country,” Trump said. 
“They hate it, I think, with a passion. Now, it’s possible I’m wrong. The voter will decide.”
He accused the congresswomen of using anti-Semitic language and voicing hatred for Israel, suggesting that they might be communists.
Trump has been roundly criticized for his attacks by Democrats, who accused him of racism. Republicans have been slower to respond, but on Monday, moderate Senator Susan Collins called on him to retract his comments.
Collins said while she disagreed with the political views of the leftist representatives, “the president’s tweet that some members of Congress should go back to the ‘places from which they came’ was way over the line, and he should take that down.”
Another Republican senator, Lindsey Graham, urged Trump to “aim higher” and take on their policies.
“They are American citizens,” Graham said on “Fox & Friends.”
Both Collins and Graham nevertheless accused the women lawmakers of being anti-Semitic.






Sue Gordon spent a quarter-century in the CIA before becoming second-in-command to outgoing Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats and was in line to serve as acting director.
“Sue Gordon is a great professional with a long and distinguished career. I have gotten to know Sue over the past 2 years and have developed a great respect for her,” Trump said on Twitter.
“Sue has announced she will be leaving on August 15, which coincides with the retirement of Dan Coats,” Trump added.
Minutes later Trump tweeted that Joseph Maguire, a retired US Navy vice-admiral and the current Director of the National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC), would replace Gordon.
“I have no doubt he will do a great job!” Trump said.
Trump praised the 67-year-old’s “long and distinguished” military career, during which he served as commanding officer of SEAL Team 2 and led the Naval Special Warfare Center.
But the departure of Gordon, a seasoned, independent-minded senior official, will be seen as a blow to an intelligence community already uneasy about Coats leaving.
Gordon enjoyed support on both sides of the aisle on Capitol Hill, but critics say Trump is suspicious of career officials in an establishment he has long hoped to reshape in his own image.
“I am confident in what the Intelligence Community has accomplished, and what it is poised to do going forward,” Gordon wrote in her brief resignation letter addressed to Trump. 
“Know that our people are our strength, and they will never fail you or the Nation. You are in good hands,” she said.
Richard Burr, the Republican head of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said Gordon had “earned the respect and admiration of her colleagues with her patriotism and vision,” while the committee’s Democratic vice chairman Mark Warner said her departure was “a real loss” to the community and the country.
 Backlash 
“President Trump has repeatedly demonstrated that he is seemingly incapable of hearing facts that contradict his own views,” Warner said in a statement. 
“The mission of the intelligence community is to speak truth to power. Yet in pushing out two dedicated public servants in as many weeks, once again the president has shown that he has no problem prioritizing his political ego even if it comes at the expense of our national security.”
Federal law dictates that if the director of national intelligence leaves, the deputy should serve as acting director.
Trump announced last month he would nominate Republican congressman John Ratcliffe to replace Coats in the permanent role, but Ratcliffe withdrew from consideration last week amid questions over his credentials.
The staunch Trump loyalist received only tepid support from key Republicans, and a backlash from Democrats worried about the politicization of the intelligence community.
Coats did not see eye-to-eye with Trump on a range of issues while serving as the official who oversees and coordinates the CIA, the National Security Agency and 15 other US intelligence bodies.
“It has been a privilege serving with Sue Gordon to lead… the intelligence community over these past two years. She is a visionary leader who has made an enormous impact on the IC over the more than three decades she has served,” Coats said in a statement.
“I have had the pleasure of working with NCTC Director Joseph Maguire as part of my leadership team… and I am pleased that the President has announced that Joe will serve as Acting DNI. Joe has had a long, distinguished career serving the nation and will lead the men and women in the IC with distinction.”
US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un held an impromptu summit on North Korean soil on Sunday, where they smiled and shook hands, ending a standstill in discussions.  
But in a quick shift in tone, Pyongyang’s delegation to the United Nations on Wednesday said the US continues to be “obsessed with sanctions”.
It complained that while Trump invited Kim to hold talks, the US had also sent a letter to all UN member-states urging them to send back North Korean workers. 
The delegation claimed the letter – also signed by Britain, France and Germany – was sent on June 29, the same day Trump tweeted that he would like to shake Kim’s hand during his visit to the Korean peninsula. 
“What can’t be overlooked is the fact that this joint letter game was carried out by the permanent mission of the United States to the UN under the instruction of the State Department, on the very same day when President Trump proposed (for) the summit meeting,” said the press statement from the North Korean mission.
It shows that the US is “more and more hell-bent on the hostile acts” against North Korea, even while it is seeking dialogue, it added.
The US letter was in fact sent on June 27 and called on all countries to apply sanctions provisions that call for the return of all North Korean workers by the end of 2019
The UN estimates tens of thousands of North Koreans are sent abroad every year, mostly to China and Russia, working in slave-like conditions to generate hard currency for Pyongyang.
“We do not thirst for lifting of sanctions,” the North Korean mission said, adding it was “quite ridiculous” for the United States to consider the restrictions a “panacea for all problems.”
 Historic visit 
UN sanctions ban all new contracts with North Korean workers and commit countries with existing migrant labourers from there to sending them back by the end of this year.  
In the letter, the four countries noted that only 34 countries had filed reports to the UN on what action they have taken. 
Trump became the first US president to ever visit North Korea on Sunday, stepping in to the Demilitarized Zone following a last-minute invitation to his counterpart on Twitter. 
It marked a thaw in the pair’s hot-and-cold relationship, after their last meeting in Hanoi ended without agreement.
As well as the working-level talks, Trump also floated the idea of sanctions relief — repeatedly demanded by Pyongyang — and said he invited the North Korean leader to the White House.
Analysts have been divided by Sunday’s events, some saying they spurred new momentum into deadlocked nuclear talks, while others described them as “reality show theatrics”.
Patrick Shanahan, the acting US defense secretary, said he approved the deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln carrier strike group to unspecified waters in the vicinity of Iran in response to “indications of a credible threat by Iranian regime forces.”
“We call on the Iranian regime to cease all provocation. We will hold the Iranian regime accountable for any attack on US forces or our interests,” Shanahan tweeted.
The deployment was first announced late Sunday by John Bolton, Trump’s national security advisor, who said the move was “a clear and unmistakable message to the Iranian regime that any attack on United States interests or on those of our allies will be met with unrelenting force.”
“The United States is not seeking war with the Iranian regime, but we are fully prepared to respond to any attack, whether by proxy, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, or regular Iranian forces,” Bolton said.
US officials did not give more details on the alleged threat and the Pentagon had already announced in April that the USS Abraham Lincoln had headed on a “regularly scheduled deployment” out of its base in Norfolk, Virginia.
Iran’s supreme national security council spokesman Keyvan Khosravi dismissed Bolton’s statement, calling it a “clumsy use of an out-of-date event for psychological warfare.”
Based on intelligence, or politics? 
The news site Axios said Bolton’s warning came after Israel, which has pushed to isolate Iran, passed along intelligence of a possible plot by Tehran “against a US target in the Gulf or US allies like Saudi Arabia or the UAE.”
Quoting an unnamed Israeli official, Axios said the intelligence was “not very specific at this stage” but that the “Iranian temperature is on the rise” due to pressure.
Mark Dubowitz, chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, which advocates a hard line on Iran, said he had heard of a “spike” in intelligence in recent days about planned attacks.
He believed Iran had given the green-light to Islamist movements Hamas and Islamic Jihad to fire missiles into Israel in a weekend flare-up.
The strikes sought “to tie down Israeli forces and create a crisis to distract the US and Israel from IRGC plans elsewhere,” he said, referring to Iran’s elite Revolutionary Guards.
Other observers were much more skeptical of the intentions of Bolton, who advocated attacking Iran and enjoyed close ties to the country’s formerly armed opposition before Trump hired him.
The deployment announcement came almost a year to the day after Trump pulled the United States out of a multinational accord under which Tehran drastically scaled back its sensitive nuclear work.
“I think this is manufactured by Bolton to try to justify the administration’s very harsh policy toward Iran despite the fact that Iran has been complying with the nuclear deal,” said Barbara Slavin, the director of the Future of Iran Initiative at the Atlantic Council think tank.
“Given Bolton’s record,” she said, “I wouldn’t put it past him to try to manufacture a crisis here.”
Iran frustration mounting 
With frustration mounting in Iran over the lack of dividends from the nuclear accord, the semi-official ISNA news agency said that President Hassan Rouhani would announce “retaliatory measures” on Wednesday to mark the anniversary of the US pullout.
The news agency said that Rouhani would invoke sections of the accord under which Iran can cease some or all of its commitments if other parties fail to adhere to their part, notably on ending sanctions.
The Trump administration instead has imposed sweeping sanctions on Tehran and in recent weeks has hit even harder, moving to ban all countries from buying Iran’s oil, its top export, and declaring the Revolutionary Guards to be a terrorist group — the first such designation of a unit of a foreign government.
UN inspectors say that Iran has remained in compliance with the nuclear deal, which is still backed by European powers as well as Trump’s Democratic rivals seeking to unseat him next year.
Britain, France and Germany have set up a special payments system to let European businesses operate in Iran and avoid US sanctions, although few firms have been willing to incur Washington’s wrath.






